I'm in my third pitch in. I get to the
very end of the pitch feeling pretty
good about myself. The investor pauses a
little bit and then just says that is a
has to be the worst pitch worst idea I
have ever heard. Not only are you trying
to go against incumbents, you're going
against incumbents that have massive
distribution. You are never going to
succeed.
>> You guys are at over 100 million AR now
worth over $2 billion. One of the most
interesting ways you guys grew early on
was influencer marketing.
>> All the initial influencers I onboarded
manually myself. I would jump on a call
with each one of them so that they
understood what Gamma represented, how
to use the product. You want to be able
to have them tell your story, but in
their voice. I think a lot of people
think influencer marketing and they'll
think these big trendy creators, people
that have a million followers, this is
the wrong approach. You basically give
them a script to read immediately feels
like an ad. That product is not
connected really to them in any way.
You're much better doing the hard thing,
which is hard to scale. finding the
thousands of micro influencers that have
an audience where your product maybe is
actually useful. People really trust
what they say that ends up becoming this
wildfire that can spread really really
fast.
>> Something you talk about there is
actually a lot of ways to think
experimentally even in the early stages.
>> We would have an idea in the morning,
come up with some sort of functional
prototype. We recruit a bunch of people
that are legitimately good prospective
users that have zero skin in the game.
Ship that so people can start playing.
In the afternoon, we're already running
pretty full scale experiment. you start
actually hearing other people describe
their usage of the product when you can
also watch them struggle by the evening
or by the next day we can actually go
through all of it together and say okay
we're going back and we have to fix this
this is like not usable and we've done
that for everything
today my guest is Grant Lee CEO and
co-founder of Gamma this is a really
unique and inspiring and very tactically
useful conversation because Grant is
building something that is essentially
the dream for most founders a massive AI
startup that's profitable and has been
for a long time that didn't raise a lot
of money for a long time and is a small
team. It's just around 30 people all who
can fit in a small restaurant serving
over 50 million users globally. If
you're not familiar with Gamma, they're
an AI powered presentation and website
design tool. They just hit 100 million
ARR in just over 2 years. They're valued
at over $2 billion. And unlike a lot of
the fast growing AI startups that you
hear about, they're growing profitably
and sustainably and in a category that
most people did not believe had a huge
business opportunity. As you'll hear in
the conversation, one investor told
Grant this is the dumbest idea that he
has ever heard. In this conversation,
Grant shares the very counterintuitive
lessons that he's learned finding
product market fit, how he knew they had
product market fit, the specific tactics
that helped them grow, including a deep
dive into influencer marketing, which
blew my mind. Also, how they figured out
their price, his thoughts on building a
GPT rapper company that is durable, a
ton of hiring advice, and so much more.
This could honestly have been another
two hours of conversation. I suspect
we'll do another follow-up conversation
next year. If you love this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 16
incredible products including Devon,
Lovable, Replet, Bolt, Nadan, Linear,
Superhum, Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma,
Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic
Patterns, Raycast, Chappd, and Mobin.
Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Grant Lee after a short word from
our sponsors. My podcast guests and I
love talking about craft and taste and
agency and product market fit. You know
what we don't love talking about? Sock
2. That's where Vanta comes in. Vanta
helps companies of all sizes get
compliant fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first sock 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vant
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at bant.com/lenny.
Did you know that I have a whole team
that helps me with my podcast and with
my newsletter? I want everyone on that
team to be super happy and thrive in
their roles. Just Works knows that your
employees are more than just your
employees. They're your people. My team
is spread out across Colorado,
Australia, Nepal, West Africa, and San
Francisco. My life would be so
incredibly complicated to hire people
internationally, to pay people on time
and in their local currencies, and to
answer their HR questions 24/7. But with
Just Works, it's super easy. Whether
you're setting up your own automated
payroll, offering premium benefits, or
hiring internationally, JustWorks offers
simple software and 24/7 human support
from small business experts for you and
your people. They do your human
resources right so that you can do right
by your people. just works for your
people.
>> Grant, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Lonnie, so great to be here. Thank you
for having me.
>> I see your face all the time in my
LinkedIn feed. I don't know if you know
this a thing on on these JP Morgan Chase
ads. I'm so curious if other people see
this or if it's just me. Did you know
this was a thing? I
>> I think it's maybe once a day now I get
a text message and just there just no
message. which is just a screenshot or
you know an image of me you know doing
something in San Francisco on one of
these uh uh ad ads that we're seeing and
so yeah kind of embarrassing but also
you know we're happy customers of JP
Morgan Chase so trying to represent
>> oh my god I hope I hope you love them
because it's like it's always you
there's no one else it's like Grant
>> I know can I tag I swap somebody out I
mean that'd be great I I I'm totally
fine with that
>> okay so to get serious the reason I'm
really excited to have you here is
unlike a lot of super fast growing AI
startups. You are both growing like
crazy. You are growing very profitably.
We're going to talk about this. You did
not raise a ton of money when you
started. You waited a long time to raise
a bunch of money. You also built a
business in a category that I think most
people never imagined there was this big
of an opportunity. And you're basically
you've achieved the dream of a lot of
founders these days, especially people
building AI startups. So my goal with
this conversation is essentially do an
anthropological study of a really
successful AI startup. Talk about how
you found product market fit, how you
grew, all the all the lessons you've
learned along the journey. And I'm going
to break this conversation up kind of
along the different milestones of the
journey. Before we get into the first
piece, is there anything that you think
is important for people to hear kind of
broadly about the story of Gamma? Yeah,
maybe I'll just start with uh with a
quick story if that's okay. And um it's
really just a founding story. So, you
know, we started the company back in
2020. This is peak pandemic. And you
know, fundraising, even fundraising was
just so different. So, all of the
fundraising was done over Zoom. You were
kind of, you know, sitting in these Zoom
meetings trying to pitch. Many investors
you never met in person. So, just a
different era, right? And so, for us,
you know, we're first- time founders. I
was actually living in London at the
time and so, you know, different time
zone. I had to do all of my pitches at
night and you know I have two little
kids so wait for them to go to bed 8 PM
we had a pretty modest flat so nothing
big. I would basically find this little
corner uh between the kitchenet and the
laundry room kind of setup shot far
enough from the kids so they wouldn't
you know be woken up and between 8:00
p.m. like 2 a.m. I'm just pitching you
know trying my best like the fake Zoom
background so people didn't know where I
was and just pitching. And so, you know,
really the first day kind of I'm in my
third pitch in trying to tell the story
of Gamma. Obviously, just starting to
get the hang of the pitch and uh you
know, I get to the very end of the pitch
feeling pretty good about myself and the
investor pauses a little bit and then
just says that is have to be the worst
pitch, worst idea I have ever heard. Not
only are you trying to go against
incumbents, you're going against
incumbents that have massive
distribution. you are never going to
succeed. And so like in my head I'm
already kind of shell shocked and
thinking, you know, what am I gonna
what's my rebuttal? And before I could
even have, you know, respond, he hangs
up. And so I'm there sitting, you know,
there thinking about it. And, you know,
before I could really get down on myself
because I had to prepare for the next
pitch. I kind of just internalized this
feeling that, you know, maybe he's
right. You know, maybe something about
what he's saying is actually correct.
And so for me, I started thinking about
if we're going to succeed in this
category, we're going to really have to
think about growth from the very
beginning. This category is going to be
really, really hard to break into. And
so we really kind of made this sort of
kind of promise to ourselves that as we
continue to build, growth is going to be
critically important. And so my thing to
kind of, you know, your audience is
that, you know, I don't come from a
growth background. So if I can learn
growth, anybody can learn growth. And I
think especially in this sort of market,
hyper competitive, oftentimes very
crowded, it's going to be essential.
>> That is such a fun story. Oh my god, how
how bad must this investor feel at this
point? We won't name names. Uh just to
share some stats. I know this is going
to be by the time this launches, this
will be out, but you guys are at over
100 million AR now, worth over $2
billion. Uh a business that again most
people did not think was was going to
work in in this category.
>> Yeah, thank you. Yeah, we feel super
proud to have accomplished that and
again, yeah, I'm excited to share some
of the, you know, the growth tactics and
things that worked for us because I
think, you know, hopefully it will help
others kind of on their journey as well.
>> Okay, so let's dive into it. Let's talk
about product market fit. Tell us the
story of just how you found product
market fit and how you knew you found
product market fit.
>> Yeah, I'll start by telling kind of the
moment where we thought we maybe had
product market fit. And I think a lot of
founders, you know, ask themselves, do
we have it or do we not? And I think
there's a there's often a sort of
temptation to go almost fool yourself
into thinking you have it. And so we
sort of did our first public beta
launch. Um this is back in August of
2022. We launched on product hunt and
you know felt really good. We had you
know what we felt like was a great
launch. Ended up winning product of the
day, product of the week, product of the
month. And I was like wow we you know I
think we have something here. And then
we'd look at signups and you'd get that
initial spike in signups and then they
sort of like flatten out. we were still
getting new users every day, but it was
clear we didn't have strong word of
mouth. There wasn't strong organic
virality. And so if we just kind of
played things out, you know, we knew
that the the product wasn't going to
grow on its own. Like something was
missing there. We didn't have that
strong word of mouth so that the product
could just continue growing. And so we
really kind of asked ourselves like,
okay, what does what do we need to
change? And the answer is like we we
need to fundamentally change everything.
It for us almost became the sort of bet
the company sort of moment because at
that point we were running low on runway
you know we knew we needed to make
progress and we didn't really know you
know what could be done and so we got
everyone together at this point the team
was uh just over 12 people and we said
okay it's going to be all hands on deck
we are going to do everything we
possibly can to make the first 30
seconds of the product feel magical the
moment you land into the product it has
to be great and it has to be so great
that someone that goes through that
onboarding is going to tell all their
friends. And if we can get that right,
then maybe we have a chance at actually,
you know, doing something in the space.
And so we spent three, four months
actually, you know, after the product
hunt launch, we like felt great, but we
knew we had to go back to the drawing
board. We spent the next like three,
four months actually revamping the
entire onboarding experience. And of
course, this is also where, you know, AI
for us kind of played a big role. We
actually rebuilt it so that AI was part
of the the the actual onboarding. every
single new user would experience this
sort of magic in the first 30 seconds.
And so we re relaunched, this is end of
March 2023.
And all of a sudden, you know, we'd go
from a few hundred signups a day to now
first day it was like a couple thousand.
And then the next day would be like
5,000 signups and then 10,000 signups a
day and then 20,000 signups a day and
then it just kept going up. And we
weren't doing any sort of marketing, no
advertising. It was all sort of organic
word of mouth, virality of the product,
people using the product and sharing it
with others where we for the first time
really felt this pull like we didn't
have to do anything. Product was just
growing and uh it was just such a
distinct difference between that feeling
and like coming out of the product hub
launch where we could have fooled
ourselves into thinking we had product
market fit. I think the temptation would
have been hey let's just spend more on
ads or spend more on marketing because
like you know we'll just fuel you know
fuel the top of the funnel and
everything else will work itself out. I
think that would have been a trap. I
think that would have let led us down to
like this path of trying to brute force
our way into product market fit and it
would just always be sort of a fleeting
sort of destination. We never actually
arrive. And so I think we made the tough
call, the right call. It was a sort of
bet the company moment. And I think on
the other side it just felt so
different.
>> Grant, this is exactly what I wanted
this conversation to be. I'm so I'm so
excited. I have so many questions I have
to follow up on the stuff you shared
before we even get to the rest of the
journey. So one is essentially what
you're describing is product market fit
to you was when organic growth started
to really take off and it was just
growing through word of mouth. You
weren't doing much because it was so
awesome. People were telling their
friends about it. Is there anything more
there that might be helpful for people
to share just to hear about just like
okay here's what it actually looks like?
>> Yeah I mean I my one piece of advice is
when you're early on you your mindset
should almost be like you're trying to
create a word of mouth machine right?
Like if you can get that part right,
everything else becomes significantly
easier. And the if you have any and and
I think this applies to both like
proumer, B TOC as well as even B2B
products. Like if you have a B2B
product, even if you're not telling all
of your, you know, all of your friends,
you should be telling colleagues where
like that product is relevant. You
should probably be telling, you know,
you know, former co-workers where, hey,
you've discovered something like, oh, I
wish we had this, you know, my in our
prior lives. And like that should even
be magical. And then you should see that
in all the leads that are coming through
like or people coming through through
your prospects and your existing
customers. If you're not seeing a
healthy chunk of those leads come
through that way, I would go back. I'm
like why? Why is that not happening?
Because again, that's like the massive
tailwind you need where everything every
single thing you do on top of that, all
the marketing, all the sales, all the
advertising, you're just going to have
like it becomes way way easier.
>> How much of this was, you describe it as
a word of mouth machine. How much of
this was like word of mouth loops and
verality features versus just the
product itself? One was awesome and two
is kind of innately sharable because
it's you know presentations people share
with each other. Yeah totally. I think
for us we do benefit from being in a
category where you know by nature of it
if if you like gamma you're sharing it
presenting it to others. So I think it
for us it's a combination of both and
and ideally you have other ways where
you know word of mouth or organic
verality can can happen in your product.
So by nature of usage like it's being
shared you know we basically had an
internal mantra that we go back to like
the first 30 seconds we want it to be
dead simple for someone to create
content we want to be dead simple for
them to share it and everything we did
kind of for that first 30 seconds or you
know call it the first few minutes is
remove friction so that they can do both
of those things create and share and I
think other people you know when you
look at your own product you think about
okay what is it you know what is it
about my product and how it gets used
can you remove friction such that it can
actually spread And even if it's locally
within an organization or like you know
within a workspace like just be able to
enable that as much as you possibly can.
>> The other really profound point you're
making here is the story of you won
product of the day on product hunt which
alone is so hard. So many people try to
win and don't most people don't like
I've tried to help companies win and
it's it's like a really hard thing to
achieve and then you won product of the
week and product of the month and still
you're like no this isn't working. Those
people that achieve that are like no we
got this and they would not have to bet
the company there was no feeling there
wouldn't be a feeling if we have to
rethink everything. What is it just what
is it there that you're just like no we
need this isn't going to work as much as
as exciting as this is this isn't it?
Yeah, I mean part of, you know, being a
founder is being, you know, as
self-aware as you can and be your own
your own worst critic, right? And so,
you know, oftentimes you want to have
these vanity metrics that feel good to
celebrate and you should celebrate, but
you should know when it's a vanity
metric versus is this core to our growth
engine? Like if this number goes up,
does it mean the product is working? And
I think that's where we looked at like,
okay, you know, felt good to win those
things. We got we kind of put ourselves
at least on the map, but it wasn't good
enough to actually have this sort of
feeling that we had a core growth engine
we could just invest in and get better
and better. That wasn't there yet.
>> So essentially, it kind of started to
just plateau and and slow. It wasn't
like this rocket ship that took off from
that point.
>> Yeah. It was still like we were still
getting signups like they're coming
through, but you could just tell there
wasn't like there wasn't this like
building momentum, you know? And I think
that's that's where it's always hard to
tell like you you kind of have to you
know me and my co-founders we sat down
we're just we're trying to be honest
with ourselves like okay is this going
to be enough and it just really felt
like it wasn't going to be good.
>> The other point here is the power of
onboarding which comes up a bunch on
this podcast when you talk about driving
retention. So you so you launched
product hunt did great and then started
kind of petering out. How much did the
product change after it things started
to work versus onboarding just like how
important was onboarding and then just
tell us why the first 30 seconds where
did you come up with that number? Yeah.
I So for us, you know, the the
onboarding and the product experience,
for us that's intertwined, right? Um the
analogy I always think about is, you
know, you know, if you go into, you
know, a restaurant and you know, maybe
the food is good, but when you really
think about the user experience, it's
like the moment you walk in the door,
you get seated, the waitress, waiter
comes by, greets you, you order. Yeah.
And of course, the food has to taste
good. But if that entire like and then
you finally get the bill and you leave,
like is that entire experience something
that feels delightful? Is it good enough
for you to tell your friends about? if
someone just came by and dropped the
food on on your plate, you know, on the
table and like just left and never came
with a bill, we're like, "Okay, I'm not
going to recommend this to to somebody
else." And so for us, like we thought
about, okay, the first moment someone
walks through our door, you know,
dropping into the product, what is what
is something we can give them? Can we
shorten that time to value as much as
possible? A lot of this is inspired by,
you know, like Scott Bellski, he talks
about kind of that first smile, the
first 15 minutes. And I think that's
totally right. And I think one approach
is you think about new users as you
almost have like a cynical view of them.
You have to think about them being
selfish, vain, and lazy, right? Like
they're coming in, they have no desire
to learn a new tool. And so what can you
give them in that first 30 seconds that
earns you the next 30 seconds and then
the next 30 seconds? And so for us, we
knew that if we can't, you know,
people's attention span is even shorter
today than maybe 10 years ago. And so
what is it in that first 30 seconds? can
we actually show you something and uh
earn the right to kind of you know keep
kind of building that relationship with
you. We really thought a lot about that
and and certainly that's that's all we
could really afford at the time. We only
had 12 people building and so like we
couldn't make a entirely you know
revamped entire product. We knew that we
had to at least put all of our energy
into one spot and so we made that coming
into the door come through the door make
that feel that moment feel magical so
that we can do a little bit more over
time. I love your point about how, you
know, you could think of it as like,
okay, it's onboarding versus the
product. The lens of how do we make this
incredibly valuable and ahaish for the
first 30 seconds almost informs what the
product should be.
>> Yeah. It really helps you, you know,
pull forward what is the most magical
thing about your product, right?
Sometimes founders will think about like
the five 10 features. Well, maybe
there's only like one thing that kind of
differentiates you. you know, I I try to
learn a lot from, you know, you know, we
we'll get into some of the marketing
pieces of this, but even just having
this sort of founder marketing lens of
like what can I do to help a new user
just understand, you know, there's this
thing from like consumer advertising,
which is you throw a consumer one egg,
they can probably catch it. You throw
them four or five eggs, they're probably
going to drop all of them. And like
often times founders want to talk about
the four or five features they have,
maybe 10 features, and then the consumer
is totally confused like why why do I
need this thing? We try to just give
them that one egg, that one, you know,
like first experience. We're like,
"Okay, you know, create a slide in
seconds." That's that's the egg. I'm
going to throw you this egg. Is that
compelling to you? Some people are still
going to opt out, but for the people
that catch that, you're solving like a
real problem for them and then you can
continue again kind of building on that
over time. Like you've given them enough
so that they'll sit around and like keep
playing with your product.
>> That is a hilarious metaphor I've never
heard for for onboarding time to value.
Just focus on one egg at a time. Just
going even further back, what was the
original insight that you had that led
to Gamma and what Gamma is today?
>> After the last startup I was at was
acquired, I I went back into kind of my
roots which is consulting. I was
advising early stage startups and the
sort of medium I was using was Google
Slides. So I just remember this, you
know, late night trying to prepare for
next day's meeting, trying to format and
figure out the right layout and spending
hours just trying to get the sort of
look and feel right rather than the
content itself. And for me that just
felt completely backwards. You know, I
should be spending 90% all the time on
the content, 10% maybe on the design and
formatting. And so the question just
was, you know, what if there was a
better way? What if we could reimagine
this format from the ground up? Slides
have been around for almost 40 years as
the default, you know, medium of choice
for a lot of this. And so we thought
about, okay, if we had different
building blocks, different primitives,
so you're not locked into the fixed 16
by9, you know, slide, what could you,
you know, what could we offer to new
users? And so that was really the the
starting point of all this
>> like hearing this I could see why
investors would be like you know like I
guess so but slides has been around
PowerPoint has been around 40 years like
I get it you know I get why people be
and specifically AI was that a part of
the vision initially or did AI start to
come up and then wow great timing
>> great timing it wasn't part of the
original vision although the spirit was
there which is we wanted to make it
incredibly fast and effortless for
people to create content so it just so
happened that AI was a magical gift that
allowed us to do all those things along
the same sort of ambition or vision that
we had and um and so we integrated it
core to kind of all the building blocks
we were already building well before AI
was part of the picture.
>> It's such a cool other example just so
many examples of ideas that were not
possible before are now very possible
with AI and it's a great opportunity for
people to come after as you like places
categories people think is an impossible
place to build a big business AI now
allows it.
>> Awesome. Speaking of that, let's talk
about the growth journey and how you
actually grew from nothing to 100
million ARR in just over two years. I'm
thinking we break it up. I know these
milestones aren't that clear, but kind
of like zero to 100 million ARR, one to
10, 10 to 100, something like that. And
let's just kind of see how it goes.
How did you get your first set of users?
How did you get your say 100 first 100
users? How'd you get to 100 million
error from zero? Our first hundred looks
very different, I'd say. So, this was
even pre the sort of AI launch we had.
You know, the first hundred users for a
product like ours, you're you're trying
to convince all your friends to use the
product. Anybody that's ever made a
slide deck, you're trying to talk to.
And I think early on, you know, your
friends want to do you a favor, so
they're going to try the product.
They're also going to lie to you.
They're going to tell you how great it
is, and then you look at the usage and
nobody's coming back. And so I think our
first hundred was sort of like gradually
hard-earned post sort of the product
hunt launch people learning like okay
this is kind of becoming a little bit
more useful usage were still pretty
episodic so they weren't coming back
every week and then I think do think you
know the the moment post sort of the AI
launch is where all of a sudden you know
we saw that sort of organic growth
happening people coming back to the
product regularly and so that's where it
wasn't even the first hundreds like I
mean the first you know 10,000 users all
came within a pretty short time period
after that that initial launch. Awesome.
We're going to talk about monetization
pricing later, which is obviously an
important part of actual getting to a
millionaire and 10 million error.
>> Yeah.
>> So, what I'm hearing essentially is the
product HUD launch was a big part of
just the first 10,000ish users. I know
there was also a a tweet when you first
when you relaunched that helped in a big
way. Talk about that.
>> Yeah. So, when uh we you know we did our
AI launch, we we didn't do our AI launch
on Product Tongue. We just we we
basically said, "Hey, let's just put it
on out on Twitter. See if we can get
some virality." And honestly, we kind of
came up with kind of a clickbaity sort
of, you know, tweet. It was like, you
know, the the most valuable uh skill in
business is about to become obsolete.
And uh and so, you know, it was
intentional in that we wanted to create
a little bit of engagement. We knew that
having sort of a more provocative, you
know, tweet would allow people to engage
with it. And so, um after a couple days,
all of a sudden, it started getting a
little bit more viral. and uh a lot more
engagement. And we looked and it was
basically because Paul Graham had
commented and saying something like
surely the thing that uh the slide deck
is describing is more valuable than the
slide itself, right? And uh obviously
you know it was fun just to see that
comment. I think once that comment came
through like you know even more
engagement on the post and then that was
really the whole intent of that post was
just to be able to have you know that
level of engagement so that people you
know we have some level of reach and so
for me it was almost like uh the my
first sort of learning moment going back
to you know what does founderled
marketing even mean? It means like how
do you actually break through the noise?
How do you get a chance to have people
even engage with like a post like that?
Part of that is copywriting. Part of
that is like storytelling. Part of that
is just having like even like the right
visuals to share. And so it was uh for
me kind of a moment just understanding,
hey, to kind of do this, right? You kind
of uh you kind of have to do things that
maybe you're not super comfortable with,
but uh it makes a difference.
>> Such a fun story. So you intentionally
set that announcement up to be
controversial is what I'm hearing.
>> Totally. Yeah, I'd say provocative, a
little spicy.
>> That is so cool. So essentially, you got
to 10,000 users through Product Hunt and
then essentially one controversial tweet
that ended up baiting Paul Graham to
comment. Amazing. And was it a com? It
was just a comment. It wasn't even him
retweeting it.
>> No, just a comment. Yeah. And then
others would, you know, pile on.
>> Yeah. It's interesting how much a
comment can uh increase the distribution
of a tweet versus them retweeting it or
quote tweeting it.
>> Totally. And of course, the algorithms
change all the time. So part of it is
just luck based on when it happened, how
it happened, who who posted.
>> And I you use the term founder
marketing, which I love and I'm already
seeing it in action here. This is you
thinking about it's not like delegating
to someone in marketing. It's not hiring
an agency. It's like how do I tell a
story that I think will break through
the noise based on you building this
company having the insight to build this
product and I guess is there anything
more there you think is important for
people to hear about the importance of
the founder thinking through this stuff?
>> Yeah, I mean I think very you know most
people today are probably familiar with
founder sales which is still very very
important. I think before you hire your
first, you know, salesperson or sal, you
know, AE, it's great to for the founder
to understand like what it takes and,
you know, they're going to craft the
right narrative, the right story. At my
previous role, I was the COO at a
startup where I was doing a lot of I
wasn't founder, but I was early and so I
was helping the founders go through this
and and really helping going to meetings
with a client or a prospect and saying,
"Hey, this is why, you know, um, our
product is interesting." I think you
know today there's there's so many AI
startups that are much more either BTOC
or consumer and so you're not
necessarily talking to individual
prospects but the idea that you can be
you know really in control of the
narrative on the marketing side is
really really important and I think you
know I'll describe a few things where
over time I think that skill set just
really really helps you. One is like you
know you have a chance to kind of be a
creator yourself these days. I think a
lot of founders are trying to, you know,
be more active on social media. And I
think, you know, if you can kind of
overcome the initial cringe factor of
like seeing yourself and post things
like, oh, this doesn't, you know, feel
authentic. If you can overcome that
initial feeling, you you start investing
into like, okay, how do I become a
better copywriter? You know, how do I uh
articulate something that is um clear,
not just clever, you know? I think
there's that saying where obviously if
you can have that clarity, that's super
important. And most people will try to
get super like creative with their with
their copywriting, but that's not
usually the right way to break through
and communicate something. So, how do
you improve your own copywriting? And
then that allows you to actually have a
higher bar when you start working with
other marketers or in this case like for
us like working with influencers, right?
If you're working with influencers and
creators and you can totally empathize
with like how they approach that work
and you know what a good hook looks like
or you know how like a structure a good
post like you can only do that if you've
kind of gone through it a little bit
yourself and you know how hard it is and
I think too many founders will then just
say you know they'll write something um
that just feels so much like an ad and
and then they'll give it to a creator to
help amplify and then that just never
works right and so I do think part of
founder marketing is like going through
this yourself using your own platform In
the beginning, it's probably going to be
super small, but as you get bigger, like
you have you have a platform that you
have a voice and people listen and
you're going to get better and better at
your own storytelling. I think these are
all skills you should invest in as early
as possible because you know you're
going to have to get better and better.
It's like practice. You got to practice
over and over.
>> I I definitely want to pull on this
thread more because you tweeting the
lessons you learned building gamma is
what led to this conversation. I was
reading I'm like okay he's sharing a
bunch of stuff but there's so much more
I want to hear and we're going to talk
through this and go a lot in a lot more
depth than what you've shared on Twitter
but uh I love that that's example of
that working get having this
conversation so let me ask a couple
questions here one is just how do you
find time as a founder CEO of a very
fast growing hectic crazy startup we
have so much to do how do you just like
allocate the time to do this and then
any just key lessons you've learned
about doing this well beyond what you've
already shared for people that are that
want to try to start sharing things on
LinkedIn and Twitter.
>> My advice is definitely just to try to
start small. Don't let it become so
intimidating that you just don't get
started. For me, it was like just having
a notepad or uh you know Google doc
around in the beginning where I would
just constantly jot down, okay, this is
something I learned or something I
observed or something that worked well,
something that was unintuitive but but
worked and just start creating a log of
that. And then once I had enough of
those, then I'd spend basically every
week I'd block off a few hours to go a
little bit deeper. I'd take a lot of
those bullet points and try to say, is
there enough here to turn this into
maybe a post or you know, something that
can be shared broadly and in the
beginning I didn't have enough. It was
all sort of scattered thoughts. But over
time, you start accumulating some
interesting themes. And then I would
start stress testing that some of that.
So I would tell, you know, my teammates
like, "Hey, this is something
interesting. Like, do you find this
interesting?" And if if there were
enough like, oh yeah, that's that I
would not have expected that or that's
not something I've never heard before,
then I then I'd actually start crafting
the initial post. And then and then you
actually just put it out there. I think
what I've learned is, you know, even for
LinkedIn versus Twitter, the audiences
want different things. And so you almost
have to then have different tones of
voices or like, you know, even nuggets
are sharing. For me, I invested much
more in LinkedIn early on just because
it felt a little bit more natural for
me. And then over time I said, "Okay,
I'm going to start packaging certain
content for Twitter that's actually
different than what I would post on
LinkedIn." Sometimes on on Twitter, you
get even more tactical or even more into
the weeds. And so I found that that to
be helpful. But honestly, I'm still
learning. And so like every time you
post, you go back, you know, after a
couple weeks, you go and say, "Okay,
what things are actually being engaged
with?" Like, are things actually
creating? Like ideally you're creating
enough value where people are either
bookmarking it, sharing it, retweeting
it, you know, these these things that
are signals for there's something
valuable there and uh and then you just
go back and you start collecting your
own sort of you know these are my
all-star posts like these are the ones
that I've actually you know broken
through and then you go back and try to
understand okay what about that post do
I think was actually useful was it the
actual content was it the structure of
the content was it some sort of
contrarian advice and you start you know
thematically bunching that together such
that as you're brainstorming every you
just have a good sort of bo, you know,
body of work to to work off.
>> This is so interesting and valuable. So,
let me mirror back a few of the lessons
that I heard here that I think is easy
for people to miss. So, one is just what
to share. What I heard here, and I
completely agree with this, and this is
what I try to do, is pay attention to
things you've learned, things that you
find interesting, things that are
unintuitive to you. Just like have a
dock and just put these there. And every
time you learn something, find something
interesting, just add it to the dock.
uh or yeah haven't heard before is a
good one too. So it's essentially just
like if you find it interesting people
on social media will also find it
interesting and
>> one approach is just share it as it's
happening which is what I try to do just
like oh I just learn this thing with
clock with clock code and check it out
or save it up for a big long post.
>> The other interesting I've never heard
this before of like post different
things to LinkedIn and Twitter. I I I
just copy and paste the same thing. Uh I
love that you do something different for
the two platforms. I I think we all kind
of have intuition that there's there's
there different audiences, right? And so
if you know that kind of fundamentally,
then the question is, you know, how do
you package up the story the right way
so that there is um you know, the
audience is is ready to receive it. And
I think this can differ by, you know, by
the type of creator or the founder,
whoever is posting it. And and of
course, the actual content itself. And
so for me, I'm still tweaking, but I do
find that just copy and pasting, you
know, from one to the other doesn't
usually work. Um, it it it really like
you almost need to be in the right
mindset of like, okay, what do I think
will be more engaging on Twitter and
then what do I think will be more
engaging on LinkedIn and and then kind
of, you know, test test a bunch, see
what actually works, go back and and re
uh iterate a little bit.
>> So, if you had like one bullet point tip
for what works on Twitter versus
LinkedIn, you shared maybe more tactical
on on Twitter. Is there anything more
there you can share? Yeah, I that's what
I found is like tactical oftentimes more
contrarian on Twitter and also um I
would say technical too. People really
like to know, you know, again going into
getting going back to like getting into
the weeds like is this something I feel
like I could replicate and I'm not going
to give you like there's no credibility
if you just give like a blanket
statement or something that feels
generic. Like I I really need to know if
you could show me the metrics even
better. Uh, I feel like that versus like
LinkedIn, it's it's more oftentimes more
even just, you know, either more
aspirational or aspirational or like a
like a a topic or a theme that just
feels like relevant at that point in
time. And you can just kind of make more
of a, you know, broader statement. It
doesn't need to be as tactical. It's
more like inspirational. It's like, oh,
okay, now I need to go and learn a
little bit more about pricing and
packaging, for instance. And that could
be the sort of spark that somebody
needs. And, uh, you don't need to, you
know, spell it completely out. Part of
it is also that on on LinkedIn you can't
really do threads and so you know doing
like a super long form post isn't as
practical. Maybe that changes in the
future where maybe the the tactical
pieces, you know, that element might
might actually change.
>> And last piece is you said you just
block off time. Is there like a specific
time of the week you do this? How do you
actually because everyone's like, "Oh,
sure. I'll block off time and then oh
no, okay, but I actually got to do all
this other stuff, so I'm not going to
use it this time. Oh, maybe next week."
>> For me, it's usually two times of the
day. Uh very first thing in the morning
and uh last thing at night. And partly
is because of kids. It's almost like I
need time where there's just zero
distraction. Uh and there's no noise in
the house and so I can actually think
and uh and then you know I think in the
mornings it's about where are you
finding inspiration like where where are
you energ like what are what are topics
you're energized by and then I think at
night it's about reflection like what
are the things you actually went through
that day? You can almost pull up your
calendar and be like okay I talked to X
Y andZ people and was there anything
from those conversations that might be
relevant? That's where you know write
some of those things. It's more of a a
recap of of actually what happened.
>> And what I what helps me to not feel
like this is some cringy self-promoy
egotistical stuff is just it's useful
stuff that I've learned that ends up
being helpful to people and people in
the comments are always just like oh
that is really cool and useful. Thank
you. It's not like self-promotion. It's
not just like look how amazing I am.
Look at check out my amazing product.
It's like here's a thing I learned. You
might find it useful.
>> That's exactly right. I I think you know
one way of thinking about it you know
with like founder le sales it's it's
always about like exchange of value
right you want to be able to give you
know them the customer this feeling that
they're getting an amazing product in
exchange they're going to pay you money
for it I think with like founder
marketing it's almost this mindset of
you want to give people a ton of content
maybe it's like you know a value in the
content so you're sharing something
maybe some you know some secret tactic
or you know you're giving them something
where they you know there inherently
there's value in And in exchange, you
sort of get goodwill back. You're not
necessarily getting money back. You get
goodwill. They're going to follow you.
They're going to engage with her post.
They're going to tell others about it.
And then over time, you can exchange
maybe some of that goodwill for like
actually talking about my product and
like announcing it and and they're going
to help amplify the news. And I think
that's magical where you kind of kind of
bank the goodwill for a long period of
time by providing just a ton of value
with no expectation of anything
immediately in return. The book I always
point people to when they're want when
they're struggling with this sort of
thing and like, "Okay, I did this and no
one like no one cared. It didn't do any
good is there's a book by uh Scott
Presfield, I think is his name, uh
called Nobody Wants to Read Your Shit."
>> Yeah. Which is exactly what is right.
Nobody wants to read it. The bar for
people to care is very high. There's so
much stuff to read and process. And so
this book gives you a really good lens
of just like, okay, the bar is very high
and nobody wants to read your So
you have to try really hard to make it
really good.
>> Great reminder. Y
>> we'll link to that in the show notes.
Okay, let's get into let's come back to
the growth of Gamma. So we've talked
about how you got your first tens of
thousands of users essentially product
hunt rethinking onboarding making it
really magical and then this very
controversial tweet that Paul Graham
commented created some buzz. Let's talk
about the next phase and maybe I don't
know tell us kind of the ARR at that
point through 100 million just like
broadly what should we know?
>> So when we got to about 10 million in
ARR I think there's this feeling for me
which was we we knew we needed ways to
help just continue to amplify you and
spread the word about gamma. I think it
was already working in terms of the
organic virality virality was there and
so we do we did feel like it was time to
start amplifying some of this and I
think the main blocker in my mind that I
started feeling was that our initial
brand was sort of holding us back and I
think a lot of people will discount you
know whether or not a rebrand is
valuable and I think sometimes is
sometime sometimes it isn't for us you
know there's a few different things we
looked at so one our initial brand was
was almost more of a placeholder brand
because we created it the moment we
started incorporated the company which
was again like back late 2020, beginning
of 2021 where we needed something so
that as we built we could at least share
it with people. We could put up a
landing page and just feel like okay you
there's something here but we didn't
invest a whole lot into it and so it was
pretty limited in sort of what I call
kind of the DNA of the brand. There
wasn't that many like the art direction
was very limited in scope. there wasn't
much when it came to like voice and
tone. And so, you know, it was um it was
something that we we knew was good
enough to start, but it wasn't scalable.
And when I think about something that
could be scalable, it's almost like you
can take the ingredients of a brand and
replicate it a ton. Like you're kind of,
you know, this this DNA is something
where you can you can imagine creating
tons of content around it all feeling
pretty cohesive. And I don't I think
that needs to be done by design. Like
you're really thinkful about every
single element like what is the art
direction you want to go with? what is
the voice and tone such that as you're
creating you know thousands of pieces of
copy it all feels pretty cohesive and so
we kind of went back to the drawing
board and we spent many months kind of
rethinking what would be the you know
the brand what is what is this this
vision that we have longer term our
creative director internally partner
with Smith and Diction and amazing
agency that has helped you know you know
folks like Perplexity also do their
rebrand or their initial brand and we
work we spent many months just like
really trying to craft kind of what we
think is like the core DNA of the brand
and doing so in a way that we could
replicate it as much as possible.
Replication piece of it comes into play
because as you start scaling, you're
going to have to create a ton of
content, your own content on social
media, ads on, you know, for performance
marketing assets for influencers to be
able to use and showcase in their
content. And so you're going from like,
you know, tiny pieces of content to all
of a sudden every week we're testing
thousands of pieces of of creative. And
you cannot do that if you don't feel
confident that as you're replicating
like you you have that sort of cohesive
feel. So for us that we realized it was
going to be necessary and it's why we
invested so much and ended up being I
mean way more expensive way more
timeconuming than I would have imagined
but I think coming you know on the other
side of it being the right investment
feeling that that was the right time to
do it.
>> I love how many things you did that feel
like this wouldn't this would will not
work out. uh building a startup within
the presentation space, doing a whole
rebrand
in the middle of scaling. Uh also just
reworking the entire product after you
launched and just like rethinking the
whole thing. Like all these things
everyone's always like, "No, this is not
how we went." And interestingly worked
out for you guys. I want to come back to
the brand stuff, but one of the most
interesting ways you guys grew early on
was influencer marketing, which a lot of
people hear about and talk about. I
don't I haven't heard of much of like
how to actually do this and what
actually works. Talk about that as a
broad growth uh lever for you guys and
then I want to get into just like what
tools did you use, who actually was
really helpful there things like that.
So yeah, just give us the big picture.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of founders assume
that uh with influencer marketing, it's
it's almost like turnkey. You set aside
a budget, you find some creators, you
figure out the right campaign or the
right moment of time to do it, and it's
all it's all done. you're ready to go.
And I think the reality is like going
back to like this founder marketing
mindset is like well you're going to set
yourself up for success if you actually
are super involved in that entire
process. So for us what this meant was
like all the initial influencers I
onboarded manually myself. Um we would
find I would spend time I would jump on
a call with each one of them so that
they understood what Gamma represented
how to use the product. You want to be
able to have them tell your story but in
their voice, right? And they can't do
that if you're not willing to put in
that investment. And so we would spend a
lot of time like going through it wasn't
my job to tell them how to pitch Gamma,
but it was my job to make sure that they
understood what Gamma was as a product.
And so we would spend a lot of time like
me just walking through the product,
them asking questions, us like just kind
of brainstorming what could the hooks
be, and me just giving them some initial
feedback and like saying, "Oh yeah, this
one I love that. I figure it's going to
work great for your audience." but not
trying to be super prescriptive and
working with a ton of micro influencers,
people that don't have massive
followings, but are committed to giving,
going back to giving value to your
audience, like they're committed to
giving value to their audiences. They
want to be able to showcase tools that
actually they would use or they are
using. And how do you do that in an
authentic way? Like, you can't really
fake that. You really need to spend the
time doing that. And just like you would
onboard a customer, you onboard an
influencer the same way. You want them
to be an extension of your team and I
think they can feel whether or not
you're willing to put in the work and if
if you're not then they're just going to
treat it like uh you know any other
project, ship it and be done with it. If
you invest in that relationship, you
know, guess what? They'll they'll be
back to actually post about you again.
And like you're all of a sudden having
this sort of uh you know this
relationship that actually can build
over time. I think that's really where
the where the magic is. Like too many
people discount that initial piece.
>> This is awesome. To be clear, influencer
marketing essentially uh a person with a
following on say Tik Tok, Instagram,
Twitter, LinkedIn, whatever gets paid in
some way to promote your product. That's
how you describe that's the simple way
to understand influencer marketing.
Yeah.
>> Yes. That's definitely the simple way.
And I I'd say you know there's
definitely different um you know levels
you I think a lot of people think
influencer marketing and they'll think
you know these these big trendy
creators, people that have like a
million followers for instance and their
their idea is that okay we're going to
carve out a really big budget. we're
gonna, you know, choose like five or six
that we feel like are really like the
taste makers in the space and put all of
our money into like just help, you know,
having them talk about our product. And
I I think usually this is this is kind
of the wrong approach because many of
them, you know, they do have massive
audiences and for you, you're basically
like you basically give them a script to
read and it immediately feels like an
ad, right? Like they don't feel like
like that product is not connected
really to them in any way. It's just
something that they're, you know, for
this week they happen to be working with
you and then they move on with their
life and it never feels organic or
authentic and you wasted a ton of money
doing so. I think you're much better
doing the hard thing which is hard to
scale but it's like finding the
thousands of micro influencers that have
an audience where your product maybe is
actually useful and for instance you
know for us like early on it'd be you
know educators people that for them part
of their job is creating slides every
day because they need to engage their
students and so like for them you know
having a tool that actually saved them a
ton of time was something they love
talking about and if you can find some
of these pockets we call them echo
chambers where if you find a pocket like
educators, teachers love telling other
teachers about products they love using
during summer break. They all come
together and talk about, okay, what are
the things that are going to actually
improve, you know, my job next next
school season? And, you know, obviously
during this AI wave, a lot of those have
been, okay, what are the AI tools that
just save me a ton of time? And so, if
you can start actually tapping into
these pockets of like echo chambers,
that's even better. Like that it doesn't
have to be this flashy, you know, like
well-known influencer. It's actually
just this person that has an audience
that where people like really trust what
they say and uh and that's amazing that
that ends up becoming this sort of you
know uh wildfire that can spread really
really fast.
>> And what's like the dollar amount these
folks get? It's like a few hundred
bucks, few thousand bucks, something
like that.
>> Yeah. Few hundred to low thousands,
little single digit thousands.
>> What are how do you find these folks? Is
there tools they use? Is it just like a
bunch of manual searching and and
looking?
>> Yeah, in the very beginning it was all
manual. uh a lot of cold outreach and
then we ended up finding a couple
different things. One is a platform, a
YC company called First Collab. Um that
has been amazing. They basically do all
the automated outbound for you. Plus,
you can help them, you know, actually
create profiles or personas of of
different creators. So, like for
instance, educators being one and then
they'll go out and actually, you know,
based on that profile, find all the
right creators for you. So, they've been
amazing, really great to work with. Um,
and then we've also found um, small
agencies to also help kind of augment
that. Like I look for, you know,
agencies that are super young and
hungry. These are people that, you know,
are are uh, social, they're native to
social media. And so, you know, they
really understand it and they can really
be able to bring in uh, creators that,
you know, are great to work with. And I
think part of it is like if you find
creators that are great to work with,
every everything else becomes easy. So
we've had a few one is AKG media out in
actually out in the UK and they've been
fantastic to work with as well. So you
kind of find a few different things
either agencies or platforms that can
help you actually scale this thing up.
>> And these when they post they they're
generally transparent about this is a
paid promotion, right? They're not just
pretending I found this tool and I love
it.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah. Exactly right.
>> Okay. And so how about how much impact
did this lever of influencer marketing
have on your growth say from 10 to 100?
like is this the biggest lever of growth
other than just word of mouth people
continuing to share it?
>> Yeah, so uh word of mouth has definitely
been the biggest. So when we look at
kind of all kind of new subscriber
growth over 50% of this is is word of
mouth. It's either people searching you
direct coming direct entering gamma.app
app or going through search and and
typing in gamma like a branded keyword
search um where they're looking for
gamma they've heard about gamma but I
think for us social media and influencer
specifically has always been an
amplifier so every time we invest in
influencer marketing we actually see
word of mouth increase even more and
it's always like you can just you can
just see it like basically anytime you
spend you know a little bit of money you
start seeing people come through
influencer the word of mouth factor is
actually one point will get another 1.5
five additional users on top of that
which has been really interesting to see
and I think part of this is just
recognizing that and I think we kind of
uh understand it but like with
influencer marketing because why it's so
effective you know we we all know you
know Dumbar's number which is you know
have this number of like 150 people that
you call kind of your network and your
network you trust more than the average
stranger down the street like if they
tell you something you know recommend
something there there is a sort of halo
effect right you learn to trust them
there a lot of these influencers the
reason why they share care so much about
their lives is because they want to be
in your network. They want you to feel
super close. And once you feel super
close, you trust them to actually, you
know, share things that are going to be
useful. And so when they recommend a
tool, there is this sort of halo effect
where it doesn't feel like it's coming
from a stranger. It feels like it's
coming from a friend. And that's where
every time we've spent money there, you
actually see this amplification. It's
like, okay, that's kind of interesting.
You wouldn't necessarily expect that,
but um for us, it's been this sort of
amplifier from from yeah, the very
beginning. This is so fun to hear about.
I've not heard this level of detail on
how influencer marketing works and how
to make it work. A few more questions
here. So, you said there's maybe a few
thousand people you ended up working
with roughly influencers
>> over the course of yeah like a year. It
wasn't all in the same time. It was like
you know you find basically in the
beginning you do in the very very
beginning we had a small budget. it was
like, you know, 20 creators a month and
then you start increasing that to like
50 then 100 and then, you know, we're
we're still not I don't we're not
definitely not fully scaled at this
point, but I could easily see a point
where, you know, you're working with
many many creators every single month
and that gives you a chance to actually
test a variety of, you know, again,
content hooks, ways to talk about the
product, value props.
>> Amazing. And you said the key here is
you spend time with every one of these
creators, influencers early on to help
make sure they understand what you're
doing, get excited about it, isn't just
like a thing you outsource.
>> I think there's a lot of value there.
It's hard to again hard to quantify and
most creators feel like they're pro or
most founders probably feel like they're
too busy to allocate that time, but I
think it was a good investment because
going back to you want them to feel like
an extension of your team. They're not
going to feel like an extension of their
team if if one, they've never met you,
and two, you've never even told them
really how the product works. They just
they're forced to kind of go to your
website to figure it all out. Those are
going to be, you know, uh, not a whole
lot of, you know, love that they're
feeling from from from the outset.
>> So, what I'm hearing is, uh, quality
over quantity, especially when you're
getting started. And then there's this
other piece of niche, which I think is
very counterintuitive. Instead of going
to large large influencers with a huge
audience, it's good to folks that are
small. What's like a audience size
roughly that you think is ideal for this
sort of what niche just means?
>> Honestly, I don't think there's a
minimum because even with, you know,
platforms like Tik Tok, they often times
are giving you credit for a brand new
account. They want to help amplify that
new account because, you know,
obviously, you know, if they're thinking
from a creator perspective, you know, if
that new creator feels like, oh, coming
to Tik Tok is like a massive win for me,
they're going to be more invested in it.
And so there there really isn't a
minimum. A lot of these platforms are
trying to shift to to kind of the same
thing where they really reward new
creators on the platform. And so you
could have a small audience, it doesn't
really matter. You could have 10,000
followers, that's also good. I think as
long as the content feels, you know,
again, engaging, authentic to that to
the to the people you're talking to, I
think has a really good chance of
actually taking off.
>> That's such a good point with TikTok
where it's not follower related. It's
it's if it's useful and people find it
uh clickable or whatever, likable,
viewable, uh it'll it'll the algorithm
will spread it to a lot of people. Such
a good point.
>> Totally.
>> Okay. There's a couple more points you
made in the tweet that I want to make
sure we highlight. So, one is you made
this point that 90% of your reach in
influencer marketing comes from less
than 10% of people. Is there anything
there that you think is important for
people to hear?
>> Yeah, I mean this just goes back to it's
it's you hard to know where that 10% is
going to come from. So, you kind of just
have to cast a super wide net, right?
you can sort of I think uh try to again
trick yourself into thinking you're
you're great at picking creators or
you're great at telling them how to like
post about your stuff. But the reality
is like even for me I could never guess
like I kind of had some idea but I just
had to make sure that I was meeting
enough creators broadly such that when
you meet enough they're all posting
there's some pocket that end up just
taking off and I I was not a good
predictor of that. I was not smart
enough to actually know which ones would
take off. I just knew that we had to
play the sort of numbers game to make it
work.
>> So, one of your tips here is is people
fail often in this because they start
too small or their budget's a little too
small. You recommend 10 to 20,000 a
month over 6 months and just trying
this. It sounds like you were doing like
20 to 30 creators a month. Is that the
right framework for how to just start
this thing and explore?
>> Yeah, totally. And I'd say it's not just
that the budget's too small. It would be
that they put all their eggs in one
basket. So you can also easily blow that
20k on just one, you know, bigger
influencer and then be like, "Oh, that
didn't work, so I'm going to try it
again. That didn't work. Okay, I give
up." And and I think rather than doing
that, you should be like, "Okay, that
20k, I could actually probably work
with, you know, 40 different influencers
and see what actually works." and across
the 40. I'm going to try to find a a
variety of personas, a variety of use
cases, spend a lot of time with them,
and then actually see, you know, what's
working, what's not, and then next month
take those learnings and and, you know,
double down. Like, if educators are
working, go with educators. If
consultants are working, go with
consultant, find more consultants
because there going to be more there. I
think that's where the uh putting all
your eggs in one basket is just probably
the shest way to fail because like
you're going to miss a ton and it's
going to take you way too long to learn
and you're going to come to the
conclusion that it's a waste of time.
>> I feel like this whole podcast
conversation could be just about this
one lever. So much I want to keep
talking about, but there's more
questions here because this is so useful
and interesting. you had this line in
your tweet about how verality is not an
accident and that this approach is how
you figure out what actually works and
then once you do that then you start
leading into that messaging. Talk about
that.
>> This goes back to obviously if you're
you're testing a bunch you'll finally
find that sort of you know post or set
of posts actually go viral. Going back
to yeah just the fundamentals like make
it easy for your influencers to be able
to tell your story and their voice. One
thing we did, you know, we open sourced
our basically our entire brand. We have
brand.gamma.app which is everything
about our brand, our voice and tone, our
art direction, what we use in midjourney
to create the sort of art direction that
we have so that a creator can can do the
same, right? And they can actually just
copy all of that so that they don't have
to reinvent the wheel every time they're
trying to post about gamma that they
have all of that. And I think that going
back to like this notion of like just
make it dead simple for them, remove
friction. they already have enough to
like on their plate to have to figure
out. Don't make it any harder than it
is. And if you remove friction, then
it's like, okay, you get into this
rhythm of adding creators is easy.
Having them post is create easy,
reviewing what's working, what's not is
easy. And if you're able to do that
relentlessly over many, many months,
then all of a sudden, like hitting the
sort of viral post is is easy because
you're going to have enough at bats
there where some are going to, you know,
some are actually going to pop off. But
you kind of only can get there after
you've like done all the hard work
before that to make you know you know
kind of remove friction from the process
and feeling like it's almost like a you
know welloiled machine at that point.
>> Is there a platform you find most
helpful for the stuff you guys are
doing? Is it like Tik Tok, Instagram,
LinkedIn something else?
>> Yeah I mean this is one where you know
for us we we cast a pretty wide net too
but it's very clear you know LinkedIn
the conversion rates are just sub
substantially higher. they're 4x maybe
5x higher than other platforms and I I I
think a lot of people are probably still
sleeping on LinkedIn frankly and so it's
one where you know the some of the some
of the influencers there or creators
there can be a little bit more costly
but if you can be highly high you know
eventually be more targeted knowing that
hey this type of creator is is pretty
impactful for for you know our product
then working with them it's just like oh
that's that's great like the conversion
rates are just so strong and it really
feels like we're we're like just getting
started there. So, you know, if you're
in the beginning you're not sure, it's
always helpful to cast a pretty wide net
and then, you know, similar to sort of
just the influencer strategy like test
and iterate. You'll figure out many of
these things will follow the power a
power law. So, it's like, you know, one
or two channels are going to be the most
important for you. Uh, for instance,
Twitter for us hasn't been that
impactful. And I think for tools like
notion, they've been really really
impactful. You're not going to really
know. And so, just test and then double
down on the ones that really move the
needle for your product.
>> I think that many people listening now
are like, "Wait, LinkedIn posts are
sponsored sometimes? I didn't know that.
Uh what's like how do you know if it's a
sponsored post or like a
hashtagsponsored or something like that?
How do they communicate this?
>> Usually they'll say, you know, they're a
partner or yeah, basically it is
sponsored in some form or you know
they'll they'll hashtag, you know, ad or
you know something along those lines. So
um that's probably the the way you'll
you'll see it the most.
>> Cool. By the way, I don't do this sort
of stuff. If you ever see me on
LinkedIn, I'm not doing any paid stuff,
just so people know. And I don't plan to
do that. This episode is brought to you
by Miro. Every day, new headlines are
scaring us about all the ways that AI is
coming for our jobs, creating a lot of
anxiety and fear. But a recent survey
from Miro tells a different story. 76%
of people believe that AI can benefit
their role. But over 50% of people
struggle to know when to use it. Enter
Miro's innovation workspace, an
intelligent platform that brings people
and AI together in a shared space to get
great work done. Miro has been
empowering teams to transform bold ideas
into the next big thing for over a
decade. Today, they're at the forefront
of bringing products to market even
faster by unleashing the combined power
of AI and human potential. Guests of
this podcast often share Miro templates.
I use it all the time to brainstorm
ideas with my team. Teams especially can
work with Mirro AI to turn unstructured
data like sticky notes or screenshots
into usable diagrams, product briefs,
data tables, and prototypes in minutes.
You don't have to be an AI master or to
toggle yet another tool. The work you're
already doing in Miro's canvas is the
prompt. Help your teams get great work
done with Miro. Check it out at
miro.com/lenny.
That's mirro.com/lenny.
Let's come back to this brand point. So,
one of your big lessons is invest in
brand before you go heavy into paid ads
and performance marketing. I imagine you
do some ads at this point on Facebook
and Google and things like that. Yeah,
we run ads. Uh, you know, performance
marketing, you know, I think there's
this this like the stigma that, you
know, brand marketing and performance
marketing are sort of at odds with each
other. I very much follow kind of the
the sort of the thought that brand
marketing is performance marketing. Like
everything is some form of performance
marketing. It just not might have not be
as attributable. So like the ability to
actually map back to every single dollar
spent is a little bit harder, but it
doesn't mean that it's not impactful.
And I think um as a company scales, you
have to invest in both. And ideally,
they work really, really well together.
Like the more you invest in brand
marketing, it strengthens your
performance marketing. This goes back to
like having enough creative to even
test. If you're too limited in scope and
you don't have a brand, you feel like
you can actually amplify. You're
handicapping your ability to actually
have a good performance marketing
program. I love that heristic of how do
you know if you are underinvested in
brand is if you're limited in the number
of ideas you can try in performance
marketing like is are your totally
>> is your design system just like is
everyone having to redesign things from
scratch and come up with all these
frameworks every time they run an ad.
>> Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's like bas
b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b
basically you kind of have a feeling
for, you know, if I were to scale this
up to a thousand pieces of creative,
would it still feel cohesive or is it
kind of all over the place and it feels
like it's all over the place and you
kind of have to go back to the drawing
board?
>> You said when you talked about the
rebrand that it took a lot longer than
you expected, that it was more expensive
than you expected. That's like the fear
I think everyone has when they hear
this, like, oh, I don't have time for a
rebrand. Well,
>> yeah. I also imagine because your
product is so visual that it makes more
sense to invest there and to spend the
time and money for the typical founder.
Do you have any just I don't know
thoughts of just like here's when it
makes sense, here's a sign you really
need to invest here heavily versus like
it'll probably be all right. Yeah, I
mean I I do think it's probably more
geared toward anything that's a little
bit more uh proumer or consumer because
so much of your product you're trying to
create, you know, this feeling for a
user like what are they experiencing and
the experience is happens way before
they even drop into your product. It
might be they see an ad or they see a
billboard or they see something. I was
like, "Okay, that piqu my interest a
little bit." And then you need some sort
of like symmetric messaging and that
they see there's some symmetry in that
they see the ad, they then they drop
into the product, they land on your
website, they it feels cohesive and it
feels like, okay, this is this is
interesting. I'm going to go all the way
through to sign up and then maybe
actually start using the product. That's
a little bit different when it's like a
B2B product or, you know, where there's
a there there isn't as much reliance on,
you know, that that initial moment. They
might just hear about it through you
know colleague and and then sign up for
it and then go through huge procurement
process and then it's like okay may
maybe it matters but probably not so
much as as like for a product where the
brand can have so many different touch
points.
>> I want to talk about some uh kind of
broader things that have worked to help
you grow. But before we do that I just
want to visualize the pie chart of how
gamma grows say post 10 million ARR. If
I have it correctly in my head, it's
over 50% just word of mouth, organic
people sharing it, doing presentations
for each other. Oh, it's GMA. Go check
it out. Sign up. Then it feels like the
second biggest bucket is influencer
marketing kind of social stuff. And then
is the third performance/paid marketing?
>> Yep, that's right. Yeah.
>> Cool. So on that last piece, is there
anything else there for people that are
starting to explore performance
marketing essentially Facebook ads,
Google ads, all these other platforms,
is there anything else that you think
might be helpful for people to hear or
learn just to get started down this
road?
>> I I would just have two recommendations.
Like one, going back to my initial piece
of advice, which is don't invest until
you have word of mouth. Don't fool
yourself into thinking that you'll solve
other problems by just starting to ramp
up a performance marketing program. Like
just get the word of mouth piece first.
so that you have you're coming into this
program with some tailwinds and then
start ramping it up. The second piece is
like set some constraints. You don't
want your product to h to be at a point
where more than 50% of your your
acquisitions are coming through paid
acquisition. I think if that is
happening, your core growth engine is
broken. And it, you know, feeds right
back to point number one, which is like
if you if your core growth engine is
broken, you just have this leaky bucket.
you're trying to spend so much money
building top of the funnel, people are
not making it all the way through.
Something else should be fixed before
you really try to dial it up. And it
doesn't mean like you don't spend a
little bit of money, but just don't dial
it up until you feel like your c core
growth engine is actually working.
>> When you said the first point about uh
wait until you have word of mouth before
investing in performance marketing, is
that essentially like a large chunk of
your growth should be coming from word
of mouth, direct organic.
>> Yep. Yeah. And like for us even at scale
again going back to more than 50% of you
know new signups still come through word
of mouth like we that that for us is a
sign like okay if something is still
working people are using the product
telling other people and you want that
feeling before you really start dialing
anything else up.
>> Is there like a percentage that you
think is helpful for people to think
about just like is it like 25% or more
something like that of just word of
mouth be for you to feel like okay we
actually have organic growth as a major
growth engine. Yeah, I mean I think this
comes back to maybe just how maybe
aggressive you want to be. You know, I
think just rough, you know, heristic is
the more the better. If it's over 50%, I
think that's great. If it's like
approaching that, good. And just going
back to like don't fool yourself into
thinking just ads is going to be the way
you grow because you can do that. But
everything else becomes harder and
harder. If you re rely on paid
acquisition to be the main growth
engine, you should be prepared for
things like CAC, like customer
acquisition cost to keep going up and
the the more you're trying to reach like
a new audience. It gets more and more
expensive. So don't assume it's going to
be flat and then all of a sudden you're
running on this treadmill that's
actually running faster and faster. And
so that's where it's it's like easy to
get hooked on that early on when you're
just investing a small amount of money
and then it's almost impossible to get
off that treadmill when you're too far
into it. And so anticipate that and give
yourself a better chance at actually
being able to sustain that growth long
term.
>> Important advice. Okay. There's a couple
more elements you've shared that were
key to Gamma's growth. One is sharing
prototypes with users before you ship.
What does that look like? What does that
mean? Why is that so powerful?
>> Yeah, I mean this for us was a huge
unlock. You know, going back to like
early days when you're just trying to
get your product into anybody's hands.
you're getting to your, you know,
friends trying to use it and again
they're going to lie to you, tell you
how great it is and then never come back
to using the product. I think what you
want to be able to do, you know, the the
ideal situation is you recruit a bunch
of people that could, you know, that are
legitimately good prospective users or
customers of your product um but have
zero skin in the game. They do not care
at all whether or not your product
succeeds. They're just in it to test it.
And you you know for us it was like
people that have made slide decks or
make slide decks regularly. Let's drop
them into Gamma. Give them very little
context. We just tell you, hey, this is
an alternative to PowerPoint. Go ahead
and try it. And then as you're going
through the onboarding flow and testing
the product, just tell us everything
that's going on in your head. Like
describe what you're seeing. Tell us
what you're trying to do. We'll give you
maybe a few different tasks like oh
create, you know, create a piece of
content. And when you watch them do that
and also hear what they're saying, you
just immediately feel the pain. Like all
the places they're struggling and all
the places are so confused by like what
they're seeing. And you sort of then can
internalize that pain and say, "Okay,
we're going back and we have to fix
this. This is like not usable." Like we,
you know, we oftentimes are dog fooding
everything. And so you can get to the
point where you're so familiar with your
own product, everything kind of feels
kind of easy and you you know where
things are. But when you start actually
hearing other people describe their
usage of the product, that's like a
gift. Like you're all of a sudden you're
like, "Okay, now I know where to
actually spend the time." People aren't
even getting to the third screen.
They're stuck on the first screen
because they can't even find the button
that we think is like so dead obvious.
And so let's go back and actually
re-engineer, rearchitect that piece of
it. And we've done that for for
everything. Landing pages, onboarding
experience, new feature launches, you
know, export, sharing, every single
piece of that such that, you know, we
can actually see where things are
working, we're not. And then every time
we'll learn something that's kind of
painful, but obvious.
How do you scale this sort of thing? How
do you run every new big idea, new
feature change by people? Do you have
like a closed beta group? Uh do you use
some platform? How do you actually do
this? There's a couple great platforms.
So, um, voice panel, which is also YC
company, full disclosure, angel
investor, and then there's also, um, you
know, platforms like user testing that
really help you, um, source and, you
know, find find these people that fit
again that persona or profile you're
looking for. So, in our case, like
people that are in a specific job
function or, you know, create decks
regularly. And so, you can use those
platforms to really scale up these
programs pretty fast. And then once your
team knows how to use those platforms
like we would we would have an idea in
the morning and in the afternoon we're
already running you know a pretty full
scale experiment or like you know a
research study and and by the evening or
by the next day we can actually go
through all of it together. So it's
pretty fast once you have it set up.
It's more about like how do you get the
program uh you know onboarded the right
way. I think the other sort of mechanism
we did early on was once we had some
repeat users, we created a sort of a
program for our power users. We called
it the gambitor program which is uh we
put put them into a separate slack
workspace and that was a place for us to
kind of share very very early prototypes
like wire flame wireframes sometimes
they're functional prototypes and get
them to get some get some initial
feedback as well. This definitely helps
with more sort of you know later stage
or like you know features or things that
aren't going to be necessarily important
as part of onboarding but like once you
understand gamma like oh how do you
share it for instance like this was a
great way to start testing some of that
because they already understand gamma
but now you're adding net new
functionality and then we can also watch
them struggle and hear how they're
struggling with the product and so that
was been a great way just to have a
separate Slack workspace anytime we're
thinking about something they're the
first to hear about it give us some
early indication if we're on the right
track or not
>> I love this workflow that you shared of
you have an idea in the morning, you
build a prototype. Do you build it with
like like AI prototypy tools like cursor
lovable something like that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. That or it could be Yeah. I
mean uh we're lucky a lot of our you
know designers also know how to code. So
even before the recent tools like you
know kind of come up with some sort of
functional prototype and then and then
be able to ship that so people can start
playing with it.
>> Yeah. So you you have an idea in the
morning, you build a prototype using
various tools. You by the end of the day
you are getting feedback from real
people using one of these platforms,
voice panel or user testing and just
like that loop saves you I imagine
potentially months of just building the
thing nobody wants and shipping it,
launching it and then just failing.
>> Totally. Yeah. I mean I think this is
even more probably helpful for you know
certainly a lot of folks that are
starting to do much with vibe coded apps
like yeah that's great like you've
lowered the you know amount of time to
get something out there now prove that
it's useful to like some set of users
and this should be again like every day
every week you should be able to go
through a ton of these and and then
build on the things that seem to be
working. I I feel like that's like it's
almost like a a way to speedrun a lot of
that early sort of you're in the idea
maze. You think you have something that
could kind of work. How do you actually
break through so that you know people
are actually finding value in what
you're building?
>> Yeah, I love it because so many people
hear this idea of just like run your
stuff by users before you ship, you
know, do the user research. It sounds so
hard and heavy lifty and in the way
you're describing it is like very
automated, very very quick to do. You
don't have to go think about finding
random people to in a coffee shop. It's
just like these platforms exist where
you could go plug in your thing, get
feedback by the end of the day.
>> Totally. Yeah. And that Yeah. helps you
just move way faster.
>> Is there a feature that you were super
excited about that you built and ran
through this and just like, okay, that
was a huge failure.
>> I I don't think any of the ones where
we, you know, we always try to kind of
chunk it down. So like none of the
things we're testing earlier on are like
these massive features. They're always
like an inception or like a starting
point of like this could be something
interesting. And then we take that
initial learning and actually then build
the the product around it. It's never
like, oh, we spent like four months
working on this thing. Let's see if
anybody actually wants it. It's almost
like we always start super early and a
bunch of ideas die right away, but
they're still pretty small ideas. And
then the ones that kind of pass the
initial test, you start building towards
something that could be hopefully more
gamechanging or much more value ad. And
by the time you're actually shipping,
like you've gone through, you know, 10
different layers of actually testing and
iteration before it actually sees the
light of day. What's really interesting
about you and the way your company
operates, you guys are exoptimizely
people. So you're very uh versed in
experimentation. A lot of people talk
about AB testing experimentation as
something that doesn't make sense for a
startup because the scale is so low.
What I'm hearing here and I know this is
something you talk about is just the
there is actually a lot of way to a lot
of ways to think experimentally even in
the early stages. Is there something
more there you think is important for
people to hear? Yeah, I mean I really
think it's more of, you know, the
mindset you go into to almost any
problem or opportunity is, you know, the
the saying of, you know, strong opinions
weakly held. I think it's totally fine
to have like some of these assumptions
or like hypotheses going into a lot of
these things, but you should always know
that there's a way to start trying to
validate some of this. You know, as a
founder, you're always trying to build
conviction. And so you build conviction
by, you know, not, you know, having it
all live in your head, but getting it
out there and start testing this with
users, prospect, customers, and starting
to see like what are the things that
actually feel right. And sometimes you
have enough data to be statistically
significant. Sometimes it's more of a,
hey, we at least were able to gut check
this a little bit and get some
qualitative feedback. I think that's
still valuable. It shouldn't be this
sort of like all or nothing like it has
to be stat sig for it to be useful. I
don't think that's true. In fact, I'll
just share kind of the very early story
of, you know, when we first started
Gamma, we knew we wanted to help change
the way people communicate. And we
actually had two different ideas. We
were uh parallel pathing kind of at the
same time. So, of course, we had, you
know, presentations reimagining how
people were creating presentations and
we al actually had the separate idea
which we called uh the lobby which is a
virtual office. Uh this is a place where
you know this is again peak pandemic
much more hybrid work much more virtual
work and so this was a place where
everybody on the team whether you're in
the same office or not could gather
collaborate it would feel pretty magical
and we worked on both for six months we
worked on both the virtual office and
the presentation product for for six
months we would dog food both so like
oftentimes we'd be in the virtual office
presenting the the presentation tool and
kind of use both and after six months we
came to this conclusion usion that we
wanted to go all in on the presentation
tool. And the reason was when we looked
at the virtual office tool, we were sort
of always competing against what we
thought was something we'd never be able
to surpass, which is in real life
experience, like actually being able to
work shoulder-to-shoulder with our
colleagues and having this environment
where, you know, you really feel like
you're building together. Like virtual
office could get pretty good, but we
would never beat that. And so we were
almost like limited in our own
imagination about how good could this
product be versus the the the
presentation product. We ended that with
like a million more ideas we thought we
could actually introduce that could be
better than how you work in PowerPoint
today. And we were just so like so
energized by it. And so for us that was
like uh you know this sort of AP test of
like testing these two things that we
invested equally amount of equal amount
of time into and coming out at the other
end realizing that one was going to be
the product we would pour sort of you
know all of our blood sweat and tears
into making it great because we saw the
potential in it.
>> There's I didn't know that about you
guys that you explored that other idea
that there's so many startups that did
that during co times. I'm like okay this
is the future we're all going to be
remote and let's work remotely and
>> virtual offices. There's a startup in
I'm a tiny investor in Lindy that is now
a big AI agent company and they did the
same thing I imagine you know that was
their whole first concept.
>> It was just like these little avatars.
It was like a little game where you walk
around go to little virtual
>> we had some Yeah, it was it was a fun
product to work on. So uh but yeah
>> yeah it's interesting how we just
reverted to the base back to like the
mean of just like people are in offices
again. That was a fun fun experience
although things have changed. So just to
uh highlight this point you made that I
think is really powerful. I haven't
heard it described this way before just
the power of testing prototypes very
very very early using these platforms
that make it super easy. We always hear
okay you have you have a mock you have a
prototype yeah testable with users
always feels like this heavy thing you
got to have a user research team go do
interviews do one-on- ones like what
you're describing is something I don't
know why everyone's not doing this and
with AI tools it's so easy now have an
idea build the prototype test it with I
don't know is it like dozens of people
how many people actually run through a
prototype on average
>> uh 20
>> 20 people so 20 people look at this
thing give you a bunch of feedback you
realize this was very dumb or here's the
nugget that we want to lean into and
instead of building the thing, instead
of doing all these user research
sessions, things like that. Super cool.
Okay.
Is there any other big lesson or lever
that has helped you grow to today's
hundred million R2, $2 billion company?
We've talked about influencer marketing.
We talked about testing prototypes, uh,
investing in brand and a little bit of
paid growth. Anything else? Certainly
for us the ability to sort of adapt and
move fast in this environment. You know
I attribute a lot of you know what we've
been able to accomplish to a few things.
One is we do have a small team and a
lean team one that's able to move really
fast. I think that is that means by by
default like we have to look for a lot
of levers where a small team can do a
lot of different things. So we can talk
one you know obviously about like how do
you construct like a team like ours and
what I think has worked and then two
going back to experimentation being this
sort of thing where for us it's been a
huge unlock right because it allows you
to not only you know test things and
like you know iterate a ton allows you
to build much more efficiently and so
we've been a startup where we've had
great unit economics from the very
beginning we run profitably we have
really strong margins I don't think that
would be possible of experimentation was
in kind of core infrastructure to us
because the temptation would be you just
throw the most expensive model at, you
know, every job and assume that's going
to work. And the reality is that never
is the case. And so for us to be able to
actually test across, you know, 20
different models in production today,
always trying to align kind of value
we're delivering to our customers with,
you know, our ability to actually scale
this operation. that's been at the sort
of in the background and not always
things that are easily you know
quantifiable or things that you know
you're sharing broadly but it is kind of
core to our DNA and again going back to
a team that came from optimiz you know
probably not surprising but I do think
that's been part of our sort of ability
to actually execute at this level
>> I love that the product is so beautiful
and such a good experience it's such a
good example of experimentation and
being really obsessed with running
experiments AB tests like you data can
create really beautiful products and
experiences that aren't just feeling
like some kind of microoptimized flow.
>> Totally. Yeah. And just going back to
like one part of the team part of that
plays a huge role which is you know you
want to build a product you know where
people talk about taste and you know
brand and all these things are they
emote. I'm not going to kind of uh kind
of throw in whether or not yes or no but
I do think it makes a difference. And
for us at some point you know more than
a quarter of our team or about a quarter
of our team was product designers. And I
think that's like a un sort of uh
unintuitive level of investment or at
least that's not common like you don't
see many startups like on our stage or
early stage you know where where a
quarter of the team's product designers
and I think that was an important
investment for us because when you think
about you know with AI companies so many
companies are trying to invent new
surface areas or you know new user
experiences and that's not possible if
you're not really getting the foundation
right but really thinking deeply about
you know user problems and how can you
solve them in a novel way and u and so
for us like we made that investment in
the very beginning even if it was
counter to what other startups would do
because we actually felt like it was the
right thing.
>> Okay. I definitely want to spend more
time on hiring before we get to that.
>> You've touched on this kind of uh
concept that you guys are what many
describe uh a GPT rapper company. You
essentially sit on top of other models
do some cool stuff uh charge for that.
There's historically and there's been a
big shift here. Historically, there's a
sense that, okay, uh, you're just this
thin layer on top of the model. How is
there any sort of motor leverage or
long-term business model here when it's
just the model that is doing the thing
and uh, charging you guys to do all this
AI work? Uh, it feels like people have
started to realize maybe that is where
the all that is the only place money
will be made because the models are just
so hard to compete with and that's not a
a place you can build a business
anymore. talk about just what you've
learned about this concept of being a
GPT rapper and how maybe what people may
not be understanding about the business
opportunity there.
>> You know, when you think about maybe
just um literally only being a rapper on
like you know, one model or you know,
one provider, yeah, maybe there's only,
you know, limited amount of utility or
value ad, but then when you start
thinking about, okay, I'm going to go
really deep into this one workflow and
it's not just one model. It's maybe 20
plus models powering all different parts
of the product. And then you're thinking
about the orchestration that's required
and you're thinking about obviously if
you're experimenting like constantly
being able to test across the newest
models versus you know models that have
been around that are cheaper like you're
doing a lot to really you know your your
job is to again like align value you
know maximize the value you're
delivering to to the end user uh in a
way that's sustainable for you as a
business. And so there's a lot more to
that. And so for us, you know, we've
always been passionate about being very
close to our our customers, our users
who for them their job to be done is,
you know, visual communication, visual
storytelling. And the default tool today
is going into like a PowerPoint or
Google Slides where the amount of effort
to create something, you know, we've all
been there late at night trying to
format a deck, trying to find the right
layout, all this manual and tedious
work. Well, what if you could abstract
all that away and give them something
that feels a little bit more delightful,
a little bit easier, much more
effortless? Uh what would that earn you
in terms of a customer that wants to
come back to your product? And so that's
everything that we focus on is like you
need to go deep into the workflow, be
empathetic to the user and their job
that you're trying to solve, and of
course apply the best technology
possible so that you're you're
delivering on that promise of a product
experience that's way better than the
the status quo. And I think if you can
be laser focused on it doesn't matter if
you're a rapper or not. Like what is the
technology you're doing in applying that
um makes a real difference. So that's
the that's the ultimate goal.
>> This is a really cool framework for how
to think about what it takes to build a
successful rapper company that is I
don't know let's just I'll keep using
that term. I don't know if it's truck or
not
>> but just like you know some ideas don't
work because these model companies are
launching their own products here and
there. So what I love about what you're
describing here is kind of like the
almost like a heruristic that'll tell
you if there's if there's an opportunity
how to be successful as a GPT rapper
company. I'm putting in air quotes. It
sounded like maybe there's three here,
but talk about just like if you think
about the bullet points of what you need
to do to build a successful business on
top of existing models.
>> I mean I think the most important thing
is you know before you even talk about
the technology. So we're we're we're
skipping to the part where you're trying
to, you know, apply the most interesting
models or technology to solve some
problem. Start with solving the problem
you actually care about. You know, I
think it's very tempting right now to
chase shiny objects. Like a founder
might be able to gain some initial
traction by literally being that GPT
rapper and like solving any sort of
problem and like you starting to see
some traction and then you just go with
that. But before you do that, you should
think about is this a problem I can
invest 5 to 10 years into actually
solving? do I care deeply enough about
it? Uh because if you can't, you're
never going to go sort of actually think
about like overcoming the variety of
different hurdles, whether it's other
startups or other, you know, incumbent
tools that are trying to start doing the
same thing. And so for us, like we we go
back to like, you know, we've started
this company because we really care
about helping change the way people
communicate their ideas. Um we really
feel like this idea of like visual
communication, visual storytelling
matters. It helps elevate everybody and
it gives people much more opportunity to
do the things that you know in the past
if you weren't great at making slides
your ideas might have died and someone
else that was able to actually
articulate their ideas better ended up
winning you know the deal or winning the
you know uh the favor of their their
manager or their boss and so we felt
like that that was the wrong you know
that didn't feel right and and so could
we help democratize visual storytelling
visual communication that was sort of
our north star and then you go back into
thinking okay every step of the way.
What are the tools and technology I can
apply to help solve that and actually
move the average person closer to that
long-term vision of ours. And of course,
AI has been again like this gift where
yes, you can apply that to solving this
job. You can also apply that, you know,
AI to many different jobs. Figure out
what is the problem you care deeply
enough to go deep because going back to
this sort of idea like you need to own
the sort of endto-end workflow. A
customer needs to have you like you want
you to live you want your product to
live in their brain somewhere where when
they think about hey I have to create a
presentation they come to you as the
default tool and and the moment they
start creating it to the moment they
ship it and send it to you know their
boss that endto-end experience needs to
feel magical needs to feel great and I
don't think you can really do that
unless it's actually a workflow you
either know deeply yourself or you care
deeply to actually help solve for
somebody else. So some of the elements
I'm hearing here is one is just like uh
care actually really care about solving
this problem not come from oh wow this
cool thing happened and it worked wow
maybe I could sell this thing to people
because you may end up having to work on
this thing for 10 20 years
>> totally.
>> Um two is understand the problem really
really deeply and have real empathy for
the people trying to solve this problem.
you had this problem that you uh
creating presentations at your previous
job. So you understood it and I imagine
you genet understand even more deeply
now that you work on this. So
essentially like care really deeply uh
go really deep on the problem have real
empathy for the people facing this
problem and then there's this like
actually be able to solve this problem
using the technology out there and you
made this point about how you guys use
20 different models to do what you do.
talk a little bit more about that just
because you know people may think oh
okay like I could just go to open just
chat to btr cloud and it'll create an
awesome presentation for me why does it
take 20 different models why is that
such a big part of the success here
>> yeah so going back to the workflow you
know you're trying to go and break down
every step of you know the creation
process for for a user so the moment of
the initial idea to maybe creating an
outline of of what you want to you know
present or articulate to creating the
first draft like what do we you know
show you there to edit ing the content
like, okay, I have a first draft, but
it's only 60% of the way there. How do I
get it to 100% of the way there? Those
are all things that might require
different models. like the initial
outline might be better served by
something that's purpose-built for
actually creating, you know, the best
outline, the best narrative, the best
story arc versus one where you're
actually going back and saying, you
know, Gamma, our agent, can actually go
and review your entire deck and say,
actually, if I were to add suggestions,
I would say, you know, you may want want
to change the visual layout on these set
of cards, and you may want to actually
change the imagery or the visuals for
for these cards to match, you know,
everything else. These are things that
again like every model might be better
served for different things and so
knowing how that actually breaks down
into the end user sitting down working
on the product working on working on you
know their presentation how do you help
them I think you can only do that by
understanding that workflow and then
breaking that down into finding the
right tool for the right job that is
super interesting essentially there's
like here's the things that AI has to do
for us uh it's I don't know imagining
some kind of storyboard and then it's
figure out the model and level of model
and prompt for for that model to achieve
each of these steps uh as best as
possible.
>> Totally. Yeah. And it applies to you
know even on the visual side finding the
right image. I think certain models have
great at photorealistic output versus
others you know want more of the
artistic vibe or like a you know
something that feels more abstract. And
so again you can choose the right model
for the right job. It doesn't mean that
you'll never use other models. is just
like as you're going through that
workflow certain the the content might
dictate you know what's the best use
case in that particular you know
particular use case and so you're always
trying to map to that what is the end
user trying to accomplish in that
certain moment
>> which models are you finding most uh
useful uh in in the work like I don't
know is there anything surprising about
oh wow this model is actually really
good at this and this is really bad at
that
>> yeah I think surprising or not
surprising the leaderboard is constantly
changing and um and so this is where you
almost You have to have the mindset that
you can be adaptable. We're just getting
to the point where there's going to be
more personalization to is going back to
like, you know, a consultant's going to
have different needs than an educator.
If an educator is trying to engage their
students, they might want to have, you
know, language or visuals are more
animated and that that makes sense.
Consultant can't get away with that.
They might need something that, you
know, is much more structured or
information dense. And so, again, like
how do we actually be the same tool that
can serve both of those needs? I think
that's where it becomes interesting. And
it's almost like there is isn't
necessarily even a quote unquote best
model. It's like what's the right model
for that right for that particular user.
That's actually much harder problem to
solve and we're just starting to you
know trying to embrace some of that. Now
>> is there one that's just like oh this is
actually really cool for some that we
didn't expect
>> early on things like creating the
outline perplexity was actually great.
You know not one that people talk about
as often but creating the outline and
doing web search and you know actually
integrating some of those elements
together for for us was was pretty
powerful
>> there. Okay. There's two more things I
want to talk about. One is pricing. how
you guys figured out your approach to
pricing. You guys started monetizing
really early and that feels like such an
important piece to AI startups because
you're spending real money on an
inference and other things. And then I
want to talk about hiring. So in terms
of pricing, when did you decide it was
time to really start charging? And then
how did you pick your approach to
pricing, your actual price?
>> Yeah, so uh we kind of stumbled into
having to do pricing and packaging. Um,
I mentioned our big AI launch in in
March 2023. This was pre-revenue. So, we
wanted just to get the, you know, we
focused all of our effort on the first
30 seconds. Literally all hands on deck
just trying to get that right. And we
spent zero time on actually
monetization. So, we, you know, we had a
credit system. All new users get 400
credits. Once they burn through those
credits, there was actually nothing more
you could do with AI. It kind of just
got cut off. And so intercom for us was
just blowing up with people saying how
do I purchase more credits like I I want
to keep using this thing and a very fair
question. So basically all of April we
ended up having to do a quick you know
sort of pricing and packaging exercise.
Uh we did a couple different things. We
we did run a form of van westonorp which
is just understanding what is the
overall willingness to play
>> and willingness to pay and so we we did
use that. We did kind of integrate some
forms of like conjoint analysis which is
just like trying to understand you know
what are the features or things that
people actually value in your product
and so we survey a lot of our early
users and and kind of ended up coming to
a price point that was in the beginning
we only had one plan type it was roughly
like 20 bucks a month part of this was
also just realizing we we almost didn't
need to overthink it too much because
this is when the the initial wave of
like AI companies and startups are
coming out and products were coming out
and you're almost uh end up becoming
anchored buy what does chatbt charge
because everyone becomes familiar with
that price point and so we asked
ourselves like how complicated do we
want to make it we always default to
remove friction make it as easy as
possible for a user to understand and so
we end up coming up with like a similar
price point and kind of ship that as the
the v1 basically end of May 2023 and for
us we wanted to see a couple things like
okay we we have the initial price point
is it uh economical for us like at the
price point are we actually making money
and we monitor there for that for for
many many months realizing that yes,
like actually at that price point, we
could still generate pretty good margins
and that would allow us to reinvest that
profit back into growing the business,
continue to add, you know, obviously
headcount, but then also, you know,
investing even more into inference
costs, whatever we wanted to do to
experiment broadly with AI. And so we've
always had that like you know pricing
and packaging is is not only it does it
not only need to be easy to understand
for a user you know obviously you have
to have like strong conversion rates but
it should be something where you feel
like you could build an enduring durable
business off of and if it's not right
then you can always go back and try to
tweak things but it's something you
should be monitoring you know as early
as possible.
>> What's interesting we had the head of
Chad JBT on the podcast and he shared
the way they picked Chad JBT's prices
the Van Westonorp survey that they ran
in Google forms.
>> Totally. Yeah. Yeah, I listened to that
one. Yeah, it was a great one.
>> What a that survey, man. What a And not
only just that survey being the It's
like I'm imagining that XKCD comic with
like the open source little uh I don't
know block holding up the entire world
like this one little piece of code. Uh
that's like the survey just like behind
everything. Uh but it's interesting how
that one decision just created this
ripple effect on all AI startups. 20
bucks a month. Of course, that's what
everyone's doing.
>> Totally. Who knows what would happen if
they chose a different number, but here
we are.
>> Everyone would be so much more rich.
It's just like 25 bucks someone. Imagine
the
>> the GDP of growth.
>> Yeah.
>> From that. Oh man. Okay. And then the
way So is Ben Westonorp helped you pick
a price point and then you said this
conjoin analysis. I actually have a
guest post that I think describes how to
do this well and if not we'll find point
people to how to actually approach this.
>> And you started charging. So was post
product launch. You launched with no
paid features. People were just like, I
want to pay. I want to keep using this.
You're like, okay, I guess we got to
start charging.
>> That's right. Yep.
>> Is there anything looking back, I guess,
just like you'd wish you'd known uh when
you were approaching pricing for folks
that are doing this now, like, oh, we
should have done this differently or
should have thought about this?
>> Yeah, I mean, that's one that one's
hard. I think, you know, you you never
want to obviously just throw something
together without giving it much thought.
But for us, you know, we we with limited
resources, we focused on the only thing
we thought mattered, which was like
getting some initial users and having
that organic growth. And I think there's
there's maybe like two checkpoints of
thinking about whether or not you feel
like you have product market fit. I
think one checkpoint is organic growth.
The second is are people willing to pay
for the product. And I think if you pass
both those, you feel like you've you've
you've at least within some pocket of
the market, you have some PMF. Um so I I
think you know those are both important
questions to ask depending on your
resources. Ideally you can do kind of
both and experiment a little bit along
you know um at the same time and then by
the time you actually have paying users
you've you sort of check some of those
boxes for yourself.
>> By the way I love that you like you
launch pricing you're like okay let's
figure out if we're actually making
money or not. It's not obvious with AI
companies.
>> Well we also didn't have a choice
because at that point runway was also
low you know. So it's like if we weren't
making money well, you know, we would
actually be in a tough spot.
>> That's such a good point that you did
not have a huge amount of money sitting
around to spend on like the way a lot of
companies in AI do. Just we will deal
with it and we'll figure out how to make
money later.
>> Totally. Yeah. Within a couple months we
had hit uh a million in ARR and became
profitable. And so those were both two
exciting milestones for a company that
months prior were, you know, heads down
figuring out how we how we even survive.
>> What a story. I'm so excited to be
telling the story. Uh, okay. Final uh
topic I want to talk about is hiring.
You have some really hot takes on
hiring. Clearly, it's worked out for you
guys. What are some things you've
learned about hiring? Well, what is your
approach to hiring?
>> Yeah, so we had this mantra internally.
I mean, even before you know the the
sort of AI launch for us, which was hire
painfully slowly. And I think you know
the temptation is once start you know
things start working you to start let's
scaling this thing and start adding more
and more headcount and for us that
always I don't know they didn't feel
right we wanted to build the team very
thoughtfully be lean but also be a team
that every individual feels like they
have high you know amount of impact that
they can that they have on a daily basis
and and so for us yeah that was from
sort of the very beginning and so even
you know as we've scaled up I think
we've been super efficient by nature of
just being a very lean So I think a lot
of people hear this advice of stay lean,
be efficient. You have some even more
concrete pieces of advice here of just
like what that looks like. You have a
huge uh I don't know philosophy of just
like huge leverage per person. You focus
a lot on revenue per employee. Talk
about that. So we actually I mean we we
we obviously we look at things like
revenue per employee but we never let
that be the sort of northstar. It's not
something that dictates our strategy per
se. Same thing with like profitability.
I think by being efficient like that
ends up becoming like a side effect of
yeah we we are profitable and growing
but I think for us more is like we care
a ton about you know adding the right
team members. So you know it's it's easy
you can almost sort of shoot yourself in
the foot as a founder by just setting
the wrong goals. If your goal is to
double in headcount and like add 100
people to the company then that becomes
the goal, right? The goal is no longer
to add the best people. It's no longer
to maintain a high quality bar. the goal
is to hit 100 people and that's that's
everything everyone's focused on. So
then guess what? If that's the goal,
then the thing that ends up dropping is
okay, maybe we'll settle for employees
that are good enough and we're going to
make sure we get to that 100 because 100
is going to help us get to the next
phase of growth and the next phase of
growth. And I think we've tried to
resist that temptation, which is we want
everybody that comes through the door
and joins our team to to really be, you
know, this the type of person that
represents Gamma. our first 10 to 12
employees. We spent so much time like
really getting the DNA right. I think
Brian Chesky talks about this like your
goal is like you get that first 10 and
you want to be able to then replicate
the next 10 and then replicate the next
10. But that 10 needs to be all super
cohesive. You need to have the shared
same shared values, same principles,
same ambition, same vision. And if you
don't then like what are you even
replicating? Right? At that point you're
just adding headcount. And you know, you
can easily just be adding headcount
because they're chasing the next shiny
startup to join. And so for us, we
really focused on that first 10. That
allows us to really have this, you know,
this sort of community of of of like a
teammates that that basically, you know,
want to stick around.
A lot of founders think about, you know,
not wanting to have a leaky bucket on
the product side, but the same thing
applies on the the team size, right? If
you have a leaky bucket, people are just
constantly leaving revolving door.
That's a huge amount of cost. The
continuity cost is is massive and it's
really hard to quantify and that you I
mentioned our first 10 employees all 10
of them are still here today five years
later, right? And so that sort of
continuity means that you have this
tribal knowledge that sticks with you.
It means that people can continue
building and having that sort of
cohesive feeling. So I think that's one
piece is just like it's hard to quantify
but I do think you know startups I would
advise just to really be thoughtful
about that like get that to a point
where you really feel confident that as
you're adding the next 10 and next
hundred you're actually replicating the
same DNA and not actually just adding a
bunch of random people to the company.
>> One of your very specific piece of
advice is hire generalists versus
someone that's just like really deep in
one thing. Why why is that so important?
What does that look like? This very much
feels like the age of the generalist or
the rise of the generalist. Right now,
when we think about, you know, uh a team
that can be really flat, you want people
that can you you you still want people
that can be very spiky in certain areas.
So, for instance, obviously, you know, a
product designer that knows how to code.
That's great. It allows you to actually
span across many different domains. And
again, a organization that's super flat,
when you're wearing a lot of different
hats, that means every individual, if
you're a generalist, you can wear by by
default a lot of different hats. And
that's helped us like just maintain this
idea that the work, you know, the
opportunity in front of us, it continues
to expand. Each person plays a huge
role. They don't need to wait and ask
for permission. They can go after and
pick up a piece of work because it's
there and they can at least get it
started even if they're not the one that
always sees it through. And so for us, I
do think this rise of the generalist is
going to be important. You can always
augment that by working with contractors
or agencies that are hyper specialized
in certain areas. And this is where like
for instance going back to influencer
marketing, you might work with an agency
rather than kind of scale up your own
influencer, you know, marketing team,
you work with like a hyper specialized
team there, but my marketing team is all
generalists. You know, we our head of
marketing more recently launched this
cool drone show uh in San Francisco. We
had like 4,000 people in San Francisco
come. The mayor came by. she created
that entire project and managed that
entire project end to end or herself,
right? While also managing the entire uh
marketing team and so it's like this
idea that a generalist is able to play
all these different roles can still uh
you know be super high impact for us. It
also goes handinhand with I I mentioned
sort of this other um role which is the
player coach. Traditional management
layer is like a manager manages a ton of
people and that's kind of their c core
focus. All of our people leaders are
player coaches in that they still do the
end work themselves and they can like
mentor and coach those around them. Um,
this analogy came from or this mindset
came from something I borrow from just
the sports world in general because
there's a lot of sports that just move
incredibly fast like football for
instance. It moves really really fast.
And so you might have a coach that has
that's calling in a play but the
quarterback can actually make a last
minute adjustment based on what he's
seeing the defense do, right? And so you
want a player that is on the field that
can adapt as needed. And that way the
coach doesn't have to call every single
thing in. He's just kind of giving you
the general intent of what you want to
run as the play. And then the
quarterback quarterback can still make
the the adjustments. And so all of our
people leaders, our management layer is
all folks that actually can make those
adjustments. If they're seeing something
that doesn't feel right on a daily or
weekly basis, they're kind of adjusting
priorities for that team. And they're
still doing the work themselves, too.
they're so close to that they understand
like what is the relative prioritization
at all times. So though both of those I
think have been you know when I think
about founders they they oftentimes
think about innovation in the sense like
we're going to innovate on product or
innovate on technology I think every
founder today has a chance to innovate
on org design and that starts by just
thinking about what is the type of
company we want to build today what does
it mean and when it comes to like the
management later what what sort of
leaders do we hire what does it mean
when it comes to hiring specific roles
and specific functions all that is a
chance for you to be very thoughtful
and and build a company that you're
excited to be at for hopefully many many
years to come.
>> So what I'm hearing here is manager
there's no pure managers at Gamma and
your plan is to not have people that are
just managing. The idea is everyone even
a manager is doing their own IC work.
>> Yes.
>> And then the other piece of advice here
is just generalists. People that can do
a lot of stuff. And I hear this a lot on
this podcast just like everyone is
there's no more just like you're a
designer that's all you're going to do.
designers need to build stuff, market
stuff, write some BRDs probably
>> and I think I mean just one thing to add
is like you know that's for where we are
where where we are at today. I think
being adaptable means that you know
certain things may evolve and change and
like how the player coach model evolves
you know and maybe in certain functions
or as the team scales like that's not
going to be practical everywhere. I
think the reality is like you just have
to know and be willing to kind of adopt
like different frameworks over time and
like being honest with ourel with what's
working, what's not. I think we're
constantly trying to, you know, learn
and and evolve ourselves because I
think, you know, we're doing it in a way
that we don't believe it really has been
done before and so we have to kind of
pave our own path over time.
>> I love that giving yourself an out when
when the time comes when you need to
just hire managers.
>> A year later when you invite me back,
I'll say, "Yeah, this is what we
learned."
>> Yeah, that you know that makes sense.
That's probably going to happen. It's
like people are like, "We don't need
product managers." And then, "Okay, I
see. Maybe we do." Uh, yeah, it makes
sense. One last piece I want to talk
about is you have this really cool quote
that you shared on Twitter. When you
find someone exceptional, bet big on
them. This is a big part of your
philosophy is just like bed big on the
people that are doing super well. Just
talk about what that looks like and why
that's so important.
>> Yeah, I mean, this starts top of the
funnel, which is like you meet
candidates, you you decide who you know,
you actually hire. And so if you don't
start with a high bar there, you know,
going back to what is the goal? The goal
is to hit a hiring target versus like,
you know, maintaining a super high
quality, you know, hiring bar, you know,
those are different goals. And I don't
think we've ever kind of dropped our
bar. And so then you bring somebody in
that you think is exceptional, that
brings something unique to the table,
that can be a good teammate. When
they're when they're thriving, you just
give them more and more resources. I
think what you realize going, you know,
another sports analogy is like, you
know, when you're when you're on a, you
know, an A team, for instance, or a team
that you feel like is exceptional, you
know, a players want actually more
playing time. Like you never see a star
player that says, "Actually, I want less
playing time." They want more time on
the field. They want to actually go
after the hardest problems. They want to
be able to feel like they're making a
huge impact. And so if you have fewer,
you know, exceptional teammates, um,
where you can just throw almost anything
at them and they'll figure it out, that
feels that for, you know, you as a team
just feels great because then they they
get what they find rewarding, which is
the ability to go after hard, hairy
problems and to be able to come out
through the other end feeling like
they've accomplished something. And I
think that for us has always been
something that um, goes beyond just, you
know, almost everything else. Like we
give people a chance to really thrive in
this environment. and um and we try to
nurture that as as much as humanly
possible every step of the way.
>> Is there anything else around hiring
that you think is really important or a
big lesson you've learned or lesson you
share that you that we haven't talked
about yet? I mean there's some of these
intangibles which is you know for the
founding team does this feel like this
could be your life's work right like
when you're pitching a um when you're
pitching u a potential candidate like
does this feel like something where
you're actually committed the
unfortunate side of a lot of the you
know what's happening in the AI world
broadly is I think you're coming to
learn which founders are sort of
missionaries versus mercenaries and many
that were just chasing maybe just a big
outcome or like something shiny or like
something to feel good about themselves
they'll go off and then the company you
know I guess doesn't live on or maybe
has to find a different way a different
path and so you know something I admire
is like you look at some of the founders
obviously before this sort of AI era you
know folks like Dylan or Melanie Figma
Canva you know Ivan at notion they've
been doing this for over a decade now
they had many chances to just you know
leave and you know sunset off into doing
whatever they wanted to do but they care
so much about the mission they've stuck
it through and I think when you're
talking to candidates can kind of tell
like is this something like the founders
even care about? And um I think you're
going to have a better chance of
attracting, you know, true missionaries,
people that want to build with you for
the long haul if it's authentic and it's
something you actually care about.
>> Oh man, I feel like I keep saying this.
I feel like we could have at least five
more hours of stuff to talk about. Uh
that'll be good content for when you
come back and you're making a billion
dollars a year. Before we get to our
very exciting lightning round, Grant, is
there anything else that you think uh is
important for people to hear? Any last I
don't know lesson you want to double
down on? Anything you want to leave
listeners with?
>> Yeah, I mean just going back to the
original story of um that was probably
the ultimate low point. You know, having
an investor that spent 20 minutes
listening to my pitch, telling me that
it was the worst thing, worst idea in
the world. You know, I think throughout
the journey, there's going to be those
low moments. And when I think about, you
know, being a founder and uh working at
a startup, you're honestly just trying
to increase your luck surface area as
much as possible. And for me, luck
surface area has two dimensions. The
first dimension is people. Who are you
surrounding yourself with that share
your same ambition, share the same
values, same principles, and find those
people? and then give yourself enough
time to prove that you guys can, you
know, accomplish great things. I'm lucky
to have two amazing co-founders. We've
been working on this thing for five
years. There's 0% chance we'd be where
we are if I didn't have them. And we've
had to overcome a lot, but I guess for
us it's like creating that own luck over
a long time horizon has been the only
way that, you know, it's been possible.
>> Well, it's clearly showing in the
success you guys are having. Grant, with
that, we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. Are you ready?
>> Yep. Yes. All right, I've got five
questions for you. First question, what
are two or three books that you find
yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Yeah. So, I'll give um one that's for
pre-product market fit folks and the one
post product fit. Pre-product market
fit, I would say, is Shoe Dog,
>> which is written by Phil Knight, founder
of Nike. And you know he talks about two
things like one you should tra chase
your sort of crazy ideas but these are
these should be ideas you're you're
you're passionate about like he was an
athlete and so not surprisingly he
focused a lot about you know creating
tools or you know shoes in this case for
for other athletes and was passionate
about that. And the the second thing he
taught me was going back to the team
thing. He surrounded himself with other
people that were super passionate about
athletics and shoes as well. And so the
folks that he had as his as his his
initial startup crew were all that. And
I think that gives gives you a chance of
like overcoming a ton where you're
focused on problems you actually care
about solving and you're doing with a
team that shares the same ambition as
you. Uh postp productduct market fit
there's a book called seven powers by
Hamilton Helmer where I think when you
think about how to build a durable
business there's so much in there. I
think there's a lot that you can kind of
read and reread as you kind of evolve
and kind of hit new milestones yourself.
And so much of that can be both tactical
but also like zooming out and thinking
about what are the big picture strategic
questions you as a founding team need to
be thinking about. So both are great.
>> Hamilton was on the podcast. We'll link
to that episode. Uh I also love that
book. Many people mention it. Next
question. Do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show you've really enjoyed?
>> Yeah. Uh the Lazarus Project is one I'm
a I'm a huge sucker for uh time travel
and sci-fi. So, this is one I just
started watching and for me it has like
all the right ingredients for a fun
show.
>> Is there a product you recently
discovered that you really love?
>> Yeah, I mentioned this already um voice
panel. So again, a full disclosure,
angel investor, but we've been using it
and going back to kind of being a cheat
code for folks that are, you know,
starting to experiment a ton with
different ideas, vibe coding maybe some
of these like get this into the hands of
users, hear what they think about it, I
think, and honestly can help speed up a
lot of things and save you time from uh
wasting time on on kind of the wrong
ideas or ideas where there's no market.
>> Is there a life motto that you often
find yourself coming back to in work or
in life? Yeah. So there's this uh
Chinese idiom that my mom used to say.
It's a gin zwa which the translation is
a frog at the bottom of a well. And the
story is like there you know there's a
frog at the bottom of the well. He looks
up every night and he sees the world and
he imagines he you know he he knows
everything about the world. And then one
day a bird comes along and describes all
the things that he sees. the ocean, the
mountains, and the frog realizes that
what he sees is just such a limited part
of the world. And you know, the bird
asks like, "Do you want to come join me
and kind of see the rest of it?" And so
frog goes along. And so for me, you
know, I came from, you know, a pretty
modest childhood. You know, my parents,
we we didn't have a whole lot. And I
think it would have been very easy to
kind of have a very narrow kind of lens
on the world, be like, "Oh, this is this
is what it is." But my mom never allowed
me to do that. She always pulled me to
dream much bigger to say, "Hey, the
world is vast. It's your opportunity to
seize it." Like you have to go out
there. Don't have a narrow, you know,
view of of what's possible. Always dream
bigger. And so for me, that's always
carried through. And every time I feel
like I'm thinking too little or too
small, I try to zoom out and remind
myself that there's much more out there
to go after.
>> That is so good and so important and so
valuable in today's world where so much
more is possible. just like most of what
limits people it feels like now is just
I don't know what idea I have like I
don't know what to do now you could get
things done so much quicker and so much
more is possible so that's such valuable
thinking okay final question you help
people present better you know your
tools basically help people become
better presenters what's like one tip
you've learned or one tip you teach
people to become better presenters that
might be helpful to listeners
>> yeah I mean I'll go back to the uh
consumer advertising uh concept which is
you know one idea at a time. So, you
know, this this notion of you give them
one egg, someone can catch it. Give them
too many eggs, they're going to drop it.
So, don't try to uh uh throw too many
concepts all at once. Keep it simple.
People will appreciate it. And so, with
every sort of presentation, like break
it down into the core concepts. Try to
make sure you're covering one at a time.
And uh I think once you sort of see the
through line there, then it becomes easy
for it to package up in something that
feels more cohesive.
>> Less is more, as they say. Totally.
>> Grant, two final questions. Where can
folks find you online? Where can they
find Gamma? What should they know? Let's
just like plug anything you want. And
then how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Yeah, so you can find me on both Twitter
and LinkedIn DM's open. Uh I uh honestly
here just knowing how hard the the
journey is in general, whether you're
just thinking about a startup idea or
you're deep into startup land. Uh I want
to be hopefully helpful. Uh I'm going to
be your hopefully your biggest
cheerleader. So let me know how I can
help. And then for us, like you know,
we're always looking for feedback. So if
you're trying Gamma, it's falling short
of your expectations, let us know. We'd
love to help in terms of just trying to
make it better. And uh yeah, really
appreciate, you know, all the feedback
and support along the way.
>> Grant, this was awesome. I really
appreciate you making time. I know
you're trying to build a crazy fast
growing startup with a lot going on, so
I really appreciate you making time for
this.
>> Thanks, Lenny. It's been a blast.
>> It's been a blast for me, too. Bye,
everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.